SUBJECT FILE
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority,
1927-43

[*Our oath [on] in back of this program - I wrote it-*]

1919 - 1927
Ninth Annual Convention
GRAND CHAPTER
Delta Sigma Theta 
Sorority

HOWARD UNIVERSITY
Washington, D. C. 

FOREWORD

To the members and guests of the Delta Sigma Theta Sorority assembled in Convention in the city of Washington, Beta Sigma Chapter extends greetings. Through fourteen years since its birth in this city, Delta Sigma Theta Sorority has been shedding sweetness and light for mankind throughout the United States of America. In a period when more than ever before girlhood and young womanhood are facing life eagerly and enquiringly, this organization stands true to its ideals of developing unfolding womanhood through the tests of life to culture, virtue, personality and leadership. For the members of Delta Sigma Theta, wherever they may be, Beta Sigma says, "Pergemus modo, qua nos ducit nostra via, dirigemus gressum."

GRACE COLEMAN,
Beta Sigma Chapter

MINER HALL, HOWARD UNIVERSITY
Birth-place of Delta Sigma Theta

FOUNDERS
Osceola McCarthy Adams
Bertha Pitts Campbell
Zephyr J. Chisom
*Edna Brown Coleman
Fredericka Chase Dodd
Myra Davis Hemmings
*Olive C. Jones
Jessie M. McGuire
Vashti Turley Murphy
Pauline Oberdorfer
Naomi Sewell Richardson
*Mamie Reddy Rose
Eliza P. Shippen
Werti Blackwell Weaver
Madree Penn White
Edith Motte Young

*Deceased.

GREETINGS

Greetings from Xi Omega and Alpha Chapters of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority.  May this, your "home-coming," bring a renewal of friendship's ties, a revival of pleasant memories and give added zest and impetus to your future work.  May the amicable spirit existing between Alpha Kappa Alpha and Delta Sigma Theta long endure, that the one great purpose of both may eventually be accomplished.  In the yuletide spirit of peace and goodwill we extend to you, our cherished sister group, hearty solicitations and sincere hopes for a New Year rich in love and service.
ALPHA KAPPA ALPHA SORORITY.

The season is at hand which it is customary for friends to exchange greetings.  Often this exchange is made in a stilted, formal perfunctory fashion which causes the greeting to become little more than "a sounding brass or a tinkling cymbal."  Such is certainly not true of the spirit in which the Zeta Phi Beta Sorority extends its greetings to you today.

We extend to you a greeting which comes from the innermost recesses of our souls.  We hope that this conclave will be the most successful you have ever had and that you will receive from it renewed inspiration to do even finer work than you have done in the past.

There was never a time when the world was more in need of the constructive work which college women can do than it is today, and as you go forth into another year of useful activity, we, the members of Zeta Ph Beta Sorority, salute you.
ZETA PHI BETA SORORITY.



PROGRAM
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 27, 1927
9:00 A.M. - Registration, Convention Headquarters, Library 
Hall.
Meeting of Credentials Committee.
10:00 A.M. - *Opening Session.
1:00 P.M. - Recess for luncheon.
2:00 P.M. - Business Session.
4:30 P.M. - Reception, North Parlors Miner Hall.
Hostess - Dean Lucy Slowe.
8:00 P.M. - Pianoforte Recital, Andrew Rankin Chapel,
Howard University.
9:00 P.M. - Reception, North Parlors, Miner Hall.
Hostess - Beta Sigma Chapter, Delta Sigma
Theta Sorority.
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 28, 1927
9:00 A.M. - Business Session.
1:00 P.M. - Recess for luncheon.
2:00 P.M. - Sight-seeing Tour.
Host - Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity.
5:00 P.M. - Tea, Phyllis Wheatley Y.W.C.A., 901 Rhode Island Avenue, N.W. 
Hostess - College Alumnae Club.
8:00 P.M. - Business Session.
10:00 P.M. - A Ten o'clock Rendezvous, 1901 18th Street, N.W.
Hostess - Zeta Phi Beta Sorority.
*All sessions will be held in Library Hall, Howard University.
PROGRAM
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 29, 1927
9:00 A.M. - Business Session.
12:45 A.M. - Memorial Services for Deceased Members, conducted 
by the Chaplain, Louise F. Denny.
1:00 P.M. - Recess for luncheon.
2:00 P.M. - Business Session.
10:00 P.M. - Formal Dance, New Dining Hall, Howard University.
Hostess - Beta Sigma Chapter, Delta Sigma Theta Sorority.
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 30, 1927
9:00 A.M. - Business Session.
1:00 P.M. - Recess for luncheon.
2:00 P.M. - Business Session.
7:30 P.M. - Delta Dinner, New Dining Hall.
10:00 P.M. - Reception and Dance, Odd Fellows Hall, 1606 M Street, N.W.
Hostess - Xi Omega Chapter, Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority.
"Half of the charm of a national fraternity would be lost if all of 
the members were the product of the same conditions. All members have 
the same idea's but the expression of these ideals is modified by geographical 
environments. Instead of regretting these differences, we 
should seek to use what we can of them for lour own increased efficiency. 
Instead of withdrawing within ourselves, we should seek to communicate 
our ideas for the fraternity's increased efficiency. That all are not alike 
is no occasion for unfriendliness." - M.C.H.
-Delta Kappa Epsilon Quarterly.



OFFICERS OF THE GRAND CHAPTER

President                                    Treasurer
     Ethel L. Calimese                         Annie M. Dingle

First Vice- President                    Journalist
     Anna J. Thompson                      Madree P. White

Second Vice-President                 Chaplain
     Vivian O. March                            Louise F. Denny

Secretary                                      Sergeant-at-Arms,
     L. Beatrice Morton                        -----------------------


HOSTESS CHAPTER

Beta Sigma

 Margaret Alexander                      Josephine Scott Luck
 Dorothy Pelham Beckley               Louise Howard Pack
 Helen Brown                              **Estelle Pinkney
 Grace Coleman                             Dorothy Robinson
*Ruby Collins                                  Harriet Robinson
 Louise Denny                                 Helen Martin Savoy
 Roberta Cohran Dent               ***Esther Popel Shaw
 Louise Simmons Gardner              Jennie Baer Shief
 Edith Brinkley Howard                   Eliza P. Shippen
 Juanita Howard                              Elsie Brown Smith
*Elsie Hughes                                  Sara Pelham Speaks
 Ruth Kemp                                     Anna Johnson Thompson
                                                      *Wilma Green Williams

  *Corresponding members.
 **Honorary member, actively affiliated with Beta Sigma.
***Associate member of Gamma Chapter, actively affiliated with Beta Sigma.




GRAND CHAPTER ROLL
______________________

ALPHA - Howard University
BETA - Wilberforce University
GAMMA - University of Pennsylvania
DELTA - State University of Iowa (Inactive)
EPSILON - Ohio State University
ZETA - University of Cincinnati
ETA - University of Syracuse
THETA - Cornell University (Inactive)
IOTA - Boston, Massachusetts
KAPPA - University of California
LAMBDA - University of Chicago
MU - University of Pittsburgh
NU - University of Michigan
XI - Louisville, Ky.
OMICRON - University of Nebraska (Inactive)
PI - University of California, Southern Branch
RHO - New York City
SIGMA - Atlanta University 
TAU - Detroit, Michigan
UPSILON - University of Southern California
PHI - Des Moines, Iowa
CHI - Indianapolis, Indiana
PSI - University of Kansas
OMEGA - Cleveland, Ohio
ALPHA ALPHA - Kansas City, Mo.
ALPHA BETA - Nashvil!e, Tenn. 
ALPHA GAMMA - Morgan College
ALPHA DELTA - West Va. Collegiate Institute
ALPHA EPSILON - Pittsburgh, Pa. 

GRADUATE CHAPTERS:
ALPHA SIGMA - New York City
BETA SIGMA - Washington, D.C.
GAMMA SIGMA - Cincinnati, Ohio
DELTA SIGMA - Xenia, Ohio
EPSILON SIGMA - Baltimore, Md.
ZETA SIGMA - Tuskegee, Alabama
ETA SIGMA - Dallas, Texas
THETA SIGMA - Chicago, Ill.
IOTA SIGMA - Atlanta, Georgia
KAPPA SIGMA - Houston, Texas


OUR OATH
I will strive to reach the highest educational, moral and spiritual efficiency which I can possibly attain. 
I will never lower my aims for any temporary benefit which might be gained.
I will endeavor to preserve my health, for, however great one's mental and moral strength may be, physical weakness prevents the accomplishment of much that otherwise might be done.
I will close my ears and seal my lips to slanderous gossip.
I will labor to ennoble the ideals and purify the atmosphere of the home.
I will always protest against the double standard of morals.
I will take an active interest in the welfare of my country, using my influence toward the enactment of laws for the protection of the unfortunate and weak and for the repeal of those depriving human beings of their privileges and rights.
I will never belittle my race, but encourage all to hold it in honor and esteem.
I will not shrink from undertaking what seems wise and good, because I labor under the double handicap of race and sex; but, striving to preserve a calm mind with a courageous and cheerful spirit, barring bitterness from my heart, I will struggle all the more earnestly to reach the goal.
MARY C. TERRELL
(Honorary Member)

QUEEN DELTA'S VIOLETS
A HISTORY OF DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY, Inc. 
By
Edna B. Johnson-Morris
GRAND HISTORIAN

MANUSCRIPT SUBMITTED TO 
THE SIXTEENTH NATIONAL CONVENTION 
for approval, change, or rejection
December 26-20       19'??
DETROIT, MICHIGAN  

2520 Adams Street    Gary, Indiana



PREFACE
In preparing the history of the DELTA SIGMA THETA NATIONAL 
SORORITY, the author has attempted to give a historical account of 
the organization from its beginning up to the present time. 

The story of the development of one of the foremost organizations
for women in the United States is intended to be something more
than a mere chronological enumeration of facts or a review of 
fraternal experiences. It is hoped that it will not only provide
a pleasant and interesting reminiscence for the older members and
give the newer and future sorors a long hoped-for opportunity to 
trace the line of progress of the Sorority of their choice, but that
it will also be of significant value to the many persons in this
and other countries who enjoy the study of race history and those
seeking specific information concerning the Negro College woman 
in America.

For our knowledge of the historical setting of the Sorority and
its early development, we have had to depend upon the trustworthy
accounts left us by our noble founders and those familiar with
the period of DELTA SIGMA THETA'S infancy. An invaluable asset 
to this undertaking has been our own personal knowledge of events
and circumstances which have played an important part in the making
of the Sorority's history. The records filed in the various offices 
of the Sorority, the information printed in the publications of the 
Sorority have been referred to insofar as they were available and 
depended upon for the authenticity of the statements contained
in this compilation. Personal contacts with many of the outstanding
women who have contributed no little bit in furthering the progress
of DELTA SIGMA THETA and advancing the cause of Negro woman hood in 
America and abroad have been an added inspiration to put forth the 
effort to incorporate the information gained from these sources in-
to a readable form which may be referred to in years yet to come. 

A real attempt has been made by the Historian to assume an im-
partial and objective attitude in this work, and she has guarded 
against obtruding her own theories in the discussions. She has
delayed into the record, and in some cases, has used the same
phraseology as the official document from which certain information
was gleaned. She has appealed to certain research in an effort to
give herself, and you, her readers, a clearer understanding and a 
more authentic knowledge of the note-worthy contributions to and
achievements in science, literature, art education, morals, politics,
religion, public welfare work, travel, and the professions that
our sorors of DELTA SIGMA THETA have made, the mention of which
most assuredly belongs in the record of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY. 

The Grand Historian is greatly indebted to the founders, past
and present Grand Officers, and several sorors from whom information
has been received at one time or another, and which has been used in
preparing this trial copy of the HISTORY OF DELTA SIGMA THETA
SORORITY. Most especially does the Grand Historian thank these 
founders and past grand presidents who, in writing, expressed their 
great confidence in the ability of the Grand Historian to 
accomplish this work. She wishes to acknowledge with sincere
appreciation the ready response from Sorors Jeannette Triplet and
Soror Anna Johnson Julian, both past presidents, and Soror Marguerite
Young Alexander, a founder, --all three of whom are living not far 

Away [from me], --to the proposal that they represent the Past Presidents 
and founders who were first requested to read the manuscript. 
Appreciation is extended to the chapters for their cooporation in 
sending material requested.
Finally, the Historian wishes to express her great thanks to 
Soror Vivian O. Marsh, past president, under whom this work was 
begun, and Soror Elsie Austin, present president, during whose 
administration the project is nearing completion, for their help, 
cooperation, and most of all, their many expressions of encouragement 
and confidence without which tho Grant Historian could not 
have succeeded thus far in carrying out this one objective of 
their administrations. 


Edna B. Johnson-Morris
Grand Historian

December 26, 1941


DEDICATION
-------ALL DELTA SIGMA THETA sorors, being interested in the 
history of our Sorority and in the fundamental stages of its 
existence will agree that to appreciate the organization more 
they must understand better its past. They realize that the
knowledge of the past, therefore, serves as a useful preparation 
for meeting the complex situations of the present, and solving, 
as it were, difficult problems which may arise in the future,---

It is to these sorors who seek such 
understanding, this book is thoughtfully dedicated.

CONTENTS
Part I - Our History
Chapter 
INTRODUCTION. . . . . . . . ."And So An Idea Was Conceived"
Page
I.    THE FEMINIST MOVEMENT OF 1912 CHALLENGES THE NEGRO 
COLLEGE WOMAN . . . . . . . . . . . .
II.    A CHARTERED GROUP SEEKS FELLOWSHIP--NATIONALIZES ITSELF. . . . .
III.   DELTA SIGMA THETA EXPERIMENTS IN NATIONALIZATION. . . . . . . . . . . .
IV.   DELTA LOOKS AHEAD AND RECOGNIZES NEED FOR SPECIFIC SAVINGS. . . . . .
V.    AN INVESTMENT IN EDUCATION. . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
VI.   INTERNAL DEVELOPMENT THROUGH SUPERVISION AND GUIDANCE. . . . . . . 
VII.  REGIONAL CONFERENCES PROVE THEIR WORTH. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
IX.   DELTA SIGMA THETA TAKES STOCK OF ITSELF. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
X.    ENTHUSIASM, EXPERIENCE, AND EFFECTIVE INFLUENCE COMBINE. . . . .
XI.   VERSATILE LEADERSHIP ACHIEVES SUCCESS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
XII.   BUILDING SKYWARD BY FAR VISION. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
XIV.  IN PROSPECTUS. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
XV.   IN MEMORIAN. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 


Part II
Interesting Deltas
Part III
Outstanding Delta Women In Special Fields 
Part IV
Honorary Members
First Honors
Part V
Significant Facts Having Historic Value 
DELTA SIGMA THETA Statistics

ILLUSTRATIONS









This page is subject to final decisions concerning 
pictures, cuts, and finance available.

Cuts from the Journalist have been expected. My plan was to 
save money for individuals and the Sorority by using cuts already 
owned by Delta. Old cuts on file as well as recent ones are 
especially appropriate for the editions of the HISTORY.



"AND SO AN IDEA WAS CONCEIVED"
Picture of Soror Madree Penn 

And so it was back in 1912 that 
Soror Madree Penn (White) went with her 
idea to Soror Myra Davis (Hemmings). 
then president of the ALPHA KAPPA ALPHA 
SORORITY at Howard University.
Although organized as early as 1908, 
the Sorority had never made application 
to the trustees of the institution for a 
charter. It, therefore, had no legal entity 
nor the far-reaching influence so 
necessary to touch women in colleges else 
where.
A brief history of Fraternities and Sororities in America will be interwoven here as if to give inspiration and reason for action among Negro College women.
So that members might consider incorporating 
itself under the laws of the 
land, a meeting of the Sorority was called.
After discussing this important 
change in its status, the members agreed 
that the Sorority should proceed to become 
a chartered organization on the Howard 
University campus, and that it should 
file Articles of Incorporation in the office 
of the Recorder of Deeds, in the District 
of Columbia. During the discussion 
of the phases of the legal procedures, 
it was pointed out that that was the time 
to change to a name distinctively Greek 
as had been the desire for several months.

Picture of Soror Myra Davis

[They wanted a name that when referred to 
in both the spoken and written language, 
it would not be given in English form. 
The name DELTA SIGMA THETA, suggested by 
a committee headed by Soror Penn, seemed 
especially appropriate for a Greek letter 
society. This name, along with a design 
for a pin, was accepted by the undergraduate membership. The 
Sorority, whose name, then and there, 
was changed to DELTA SIGMA THETA voted 
to retain Soror Myra Davis, a senior, and 
erstwhile president of ALPHA KAPPA 
ALPHA SORORITY as its president. 
Therefore, Soror Myra Davis became 
first president of DELTA SIGMA THETA 
SORORITY.]
[*This is to be deleted here because another chapter takes this up.*]
One graduate, the only alumna 
present at the meeting, objected to 
the change of the name from ALPHA 
KAPPA ALPHA to DELTA SIGMA THETA. 
[She hastily contacted graduate members 
scattered over the country. 
Those whom she could reach in Washington, 
D. C. and its environs reorganized 
and unanimously voted to 
hold on to their tradition and their 
name.] 

Picture of Soror Wertie Weaver 
another founder, 
now living in Los Angeles

Out of an idea conceived by Miss Ethel T. Robinson, a 
faculty member at Howard University, ALPHA KAPPA ALPHA SORORITY 
came.

Out of an idea conceived by Miss Madree Penn, an undergraduate 
at Howard University DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY sprang 
forth.

Out of an idea conceived by Miss Nellie Quander, a graduate 
of Howard University, ALPHA KAPPA ALPHA SORORITY revived 
itself.

Thus two great organizations from one seed of intellectual 
foresight have grown, and those two, alongside of other 
sororities that have developed since, exist to serve humanity 
more abundantly.

Soror White, the wife of Dr. J. E. White, lives now in 
St. Louis, Missouri, and Soror Hemmings, the Regional Director 
of the Southwest, resides with her husband Mr. J. W. Hemmings 
in San Antonio, Texas, where she is an English teacher in the 
city schools.

Snap-shots or pictures made available by any 
of the Founders of DELTA SIGMA THETA


cut of 
Miner Hall, Howard University
Birth-place of 
DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY

OUR ROLL OF HONOR 
OUR FOUNDERS

(List of Founders)

Cut of
The Founders of Delta Sigma Theta

The far-sighted vision and forethought of the sorors 
named above brought about the beginning of what has developed 
into one of the foremost organization for women in the world.

May Delta Sigma Theta and her posterity ever hold 
aloft the ideals of these noble Founders!


*Deceased


"THE FEMINIST MOVEMENT OF 1912 CHALLENGES THE NEGRO COLLEGE WOMAN"
In an earlier chapter it was brought out that 
an organization, known for four years as the Alpha 
Kappa Alpha Sorority existed at Howard University, 
having been formed from the upper class young women 
of the School of Liberal Arts in 1908 by Miss Ethel 
T. Robinson, a member of the faculty. The intention 
of the early promoters of the Alpha Kappa Alpha 
Sorority was to create among the young women of the 
college an organization that would appeal to the 
highest and noblest aims in life, and the requirements 
for admission were good scholarship and strong 
character. However, the group, beginning to feel the 
need of a closer fellowship with Negro college women 
located elsewhere in the country, sought to expand 
itself. The Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority had existed 
as a local body, had done much to enrich the lives 
of the women students of Howard University, and had 
offered opportunity for social enjoyment and to 
sponsor literary and cultural programs at the school; 
but the Sorority had no legal entity, and, unincorporated 
as it was, had neither charter nor power to 
form other chapters and function as a real Sorority 
at an outstanding college should function.

Having received inspiration 
from the nation-wide feminist 
movement of 1912, the members 
of this group realized that 
they must do something to 
meet the challenge of the 
changing times. They decided 
to change the nature and 
activities of the organization 
into those which would better 
justify the term "sorority" 
as it was applied to similar 
organizations for women on 
other university campuses. 
There came a demand from 
some in the membership to 
re-cast the ALPHA KAPPA ALPHA 
SORORITY into a new mold which 
would more nearly meet the requirements 
demanded by a changing 
order.

The members recognized the need, and the group 
voted to take steps to secure a charter, to incorporate 
itself, to gain all the legal privileges 
offered incorporated bodies, and to draw up a constitution and

a ritual commensurate with the dignity of a college organization. The president, Soror Myra Davis (Hemmings) named a committee to work out the details for such re-organization. Before many days had passed, the committee of which Soror Madree Penn (White) was the chairman, had drafted a new constitution, a set of by-laws, had originated a song, and a ritualistic service appropriate for Sorority use. These details were offered at the next meeting of the Sorority, and after much discussion, but with great enthusiam, all of those changes were accepted and the re-organization was perfected when, by unanimous approval, all officers were declared re-elected. The committee further recommended that the name ALPHA KAPPA ALPHA be replaced by one more distinctively Greek, in that it could neither be written out, abbreviated, or pronounced correctly except in Greek. Apparently, the name ALPHA KAPPA ALPHA had been selected in 1906 because of its similarity to the name ALPHA PHI ALPHA, an organization established in 1907 for the men on the campus. The committee suggested a new combination of these greek letters DELTA, SIGMA, AND THETA which were the first letters, respectively, of a Greek phrase of three words which ex-pressed certain information to be divulged only to members of the Sorority. This change in the name appealed to all of the under-graduate members and they voted to affect the change from ALPHA KAPPA ALPHA SORORITY to DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY and that the president of the DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY be empowered to appoint a group of sorors who would take the legal steps in be-half of the DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY to secure a charter and to file the first Articles of Incorporation in the office of the Recorder of Deeds, District of Columbia.


   It was the intention of the undergraduates to make only internal changes in the former organization, which, obviously, was an undergraduate group, and after being chartered as Sorority, link up the graduates as they could be located. But a sudden turn of events! One graduate, Miss Nellie Quander, was present at the meeting, and she opposed changing the name of the original group. She would not acquiesce. The undergraduate having voted unamimously for the change in name from ALPHA KAPPA ALPHA to DELTA SIGMA THETA were resolute. She remained alone dissenter. Dissatisfied, Miss Quender left the meeting, and immediately contacted a number of graduate members scattered over the country. With a few who were in or around Washington, D.C., she reorganized them into a group that agreed to hold on to their tradition and their original name. Thus, almost simultaneously, both DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY and ALPHA KAPPA ALPHA SORORITY became two gloriously bright beacons to light the pathways to knowledge, culture, and successful undertaking among Negro College women and those  that are privilege to serve.

  While the two organizations, to be sure , were founded on lofty principles and on high ideals, they , characteristic of most campus groups, immediately became rivals. Each Sorority knowing the intentions of the other to apply for a charter and file articles of incorporation, lost no time in performing whatever duties were necessary, preliminary to filing its application. Although Delta Sigma Theta was able to complete the necessary requirements for submitting its application could not be considered by the Trustees until January of 1913 when school reopened. Nevertheless Delta Sigma Theta Sorority has the distinction of being the FIRST Sorority composed of colored woman 


to- apply to the Trustees of any University for the right to become an incorporated body. At the mid-term meeting of the  Trustees  of Howard University, the applications of the DELTA SIGMA THETA and ALPHA KAPPA ALPHA Sororities were reviewed . DELTA SIGMA THETA application, having been on file first, was considered first and approved first by the University. ( It is quite likely that the application of ALPHA KAPPA ALPHA was approved at the meeting.)

   Permission was granted, therefore, to DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY to submit its application to office of the Recorder of Deeds in the District of Columbia for a charter. There were a few days of delay in forwarding the application to the office of the Recorder of Deeds account of unforeseen and unavoidable difficulties in the University office, but in comparatively short time there was an officially recorded Sorority among Negro undergraduate women-- the DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY-- in the District of Columbia on Howard University campus.

There were twenty charter members of DELTA SIGMA THETA 
SORORITY. Soror Myra Davis Hemmings was the first president 
serving from the first meeting on January 13, 1913, until late 
spring when she was graduated from Howard University. Soror 
Madree Penn (white) in whose mind the re-organization idea was 
conceived, because second president of the Sorority-the Alpha 
Chapter.

From a legal point of view, DELTA SIGMA THETA appears to 
be the original Sorority,inasmuch as the re-organization and 
the renaming of the group---since the personnel remained the same---
did not dissolve the former organization. However, since the 
Sorority had its incipiency at Howard University under the name 
of ALPHA KAPPA ALPHA, and although ALPHA KAPPA ALPHA, through 
a graduate group no longer having an active status at Howard 
University, re-organized itself subsequent to the creation of 
the DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY, in the spirit of good-will and 
fraternal respect, it is generally conceded by DELTA SIGMA 
THETA SORORITY that ALPHA KAPPA ALPHA SORORITY merits the distinction 
of being hailed as the source from which DELTA SIGMA 
THETA came into existence. 

To-day as the two oldest Sororities for Negro College women 
go forth in the world doing good toward humanity, performing 
little services or colossal tasks, or scattering a bit of 
sunshine along the way, each gets a joy, each gets a thrill, and 
each gets untold inspiration to do greater and greater things 
to make the world better than it was before they came into being 
and were rocked in the same infant cradle.

[*ARTicles of Incorportation*] 
District of Columbia 
City of Washington
ss

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that we, Myra L. Davis, 
Ethol L. Cuff, Edith L. Motte, Jessie M. McGuire, Pauline 
Oberdorfor, Fredericka J. Chase, Winona L. Cargile and Zephyr J 
Chisom, all citizens of the United States, a majority of whom 
are residents of the District of Columbia, desiring to associate 
ourselves together pursuant and in conformity to section 599, 
Chapter XVIII, Sub-Chapter 3 of the Code of Laws for the District 
of Columbia, enacted by Congress and approved by the President 
of the United States, do hereby certify:
     First, That the name by which the society shall be 
known in law shall be Delta Sigma Theta Sorority;
     Second, That the term of its existence shall be 
perpetual;
      Third, That the particular purpose and object of 
said sorority shall be to establish and maintain a high standard 
of morality and scholarship among women generally and especially 
among the women of the School of Liberal Arts of Howard University 
in the City of Washington, District of Columbia, and in general 
to do and perform ever lawful act and thing necessary or expedient 
to be done or performed for the officiant conducting of 
said Society as authorized by the law of Congress and to have 
and to exercise all the powers conferred by the laws of the 
District of Columbia under said section 599, Chapter XVIII, Sub-Chapter 
3 of the incorporation laws of the District of Columbia;

Fourth, That the number of its directors for the 
first year shall be eight, namely:

President Myra L. Davis
Vice-President Ethel L. Cuff
Recording Secretary Edith L. Motte
Corresponding Secretary Jessie M McGuire
Treasurer Pauline Oberdorfer
Sergeant-at-Arms Fredericka J. Chase
Custodian Winona L. Cargile
Reporter Zephyr J. Chisom
This corporation reserves the right to amend, alter or 
change any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation 
in any manner prescribed by statute.
In testimony whereof, we have hereunto affixed our 
signatures and seals this eighteenth day of February, A. D., 1913.
Myra L. Davis Seal Pauline Oberdorfer Seal 
Ethel L. Cuff Seal Frederica J. Chase Seal 
Edith L. Motte Seal Winona L. Cargile Seal 
Jessie M McGuire Seal Zephyr J. Chisom Seal 
-o-(o)-o-
2 UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
District of Columbia, to wit:
I, C. E. Lucas, a notary public in the 
District of Columbia, do certify that Myra L. Davis, Ethel L. Cuff, Edith L. Motte, Jessie M McGuire, Pauline Oberdorfer, Frederica J. Chase, Winona L. Cargile, Zephyr J. Chisom, 
parties  to the foregoing and annexed Certificate of Incorporation 
of the Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, bearing date on the eighteenth 
day of February, 1913, personally appeared before me in the 
District of Columbia, the said Myra L. Davis, Ethel L. Cuff, Edith L. Motte, Jessie M McGuire, Pauline Oberdorfer, Frederica J. Chase, Winona L. Cargile, Zephyr J. Chisom, 


being personally know to me to the persons who made and signed the said certificate and severally acknowledged the same to be their act and deed for the purpose therein set forth.
                          Witness may hand and seal this eighteenth day of February, 1913. 


                                                                                                                            C.C. Lucas
NOTATIAL                                                                                                              Notary Public
SEAL

Disseminating "Sweetness and Light" 
    The chapter having been granted DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY,
the chapter, called Alpha, turned its attention towards the 
launching of a program, the effectiveness of which would attract
Negro women in other colleges.
     Soror Davis, as president, set herself to the task of local
development and laying a foundation for those who should come 
after her. The spring months were taken up in carrying out the 
plans of the group as expressed in the initial meeting the 
previous November.
     As  Soror Davis was a candidate for graduation in June of 
that year Soror Madree Penn, a junior, was elected in May to 
succeed Soror Davis.
     Soror Penn performed the first initiation service held by 
DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY using the ceremony that, just a few
months before, had been written by her committee.
     G. Dorothy Pelham and Anne McCary were among the first initiates 
of this new sorority. Both of these sorors, a decade afterwards, 
became national officers. Grace Coleman, the embodiment of modesty
and culture, was one of the first class of initiates.
     The mother of Soror Pelham, Mrs. Gabrielle Pelham was inducted
in 1913 as DELTA SIGMA THETA'S first honorary member.
      In the course of time a few more prominent and eligible women
were added to the roster of Alpha Chapter as honorary members. They
were: Mrs. Coralie Cook, Miss Mary Cromwell, Mrs. Nannie H.
Burroughs, Mrs. Margaret Murray Washington, Miss Estelle Pinckney
Mrs. Mary Church Torrel, and Mrs. Georgia Cook.
      These women not only added prestige to DELTA SIGMA THETA but
they were of invaluable assistance to the sorority in the days of 
its infancy.
      Soror Penn like Soror Davis, was an untiring worker for
whatever she was indentified with. Her farsighted vision and [west]
interest in expanding DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY [west] ward resulted in 
the establishment of a mid-western chapter. Correspondence was
carried on with Miss Ruby Martin during the year 1913, and, after
negotiations for recognition by the University authorities had
been completed, BETA chapter DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY was set
up with Soror Frances Gunner of Alpha chapter in charge. Charter
members of the new chapter at Wilberforce University, oldest Negro
college in the North, were: Annie Singleton (Newhouse), Margaret
Johnson, Bernice Sanders, Helen Ferguson, Anna Dickerson (Leslie),
Ruby Martin (Bohee), Beatrice Mason, and Verna Warrick, and 
Marie Ody (Cobb). Women of both local and national repute were
added to this group through Honorary Membership. They were:
Miss Hallie Q. Brown, Miss Julia Gee, Miss Gadie Overton (Davis),
Mrs. Gertrude Woodward, Mrs. Sarah Scarborough, and Mrs. Malvinia
Mitchell.
    Shedding sweetness and light for mankind throughout the East
and Mid-west, those two chanters --- Alpha and Beta--- cemented a 
bond of friendship and loyalty that was cherished by each soror.





    In 1918, through  the efforts of Soror Lillian Skinker, of 
Alpha Chapter, Gamma Chapter was established at the University 
of Pennsylvania with the following persons as charter members:
Sadie Tanner Mossell (Alexander), Viriginia M.  Alexander, Julia 
Polk, Nellie Bright, and Pauline Young.  Mrs. Alice Dunbar-Nelson, 
a talented writer herself, and widow of the immortal Paul Lawrence 
Dunbar accepted the invitation

of Gamma Chapter to become an honorary member.

   The trio of chapters worked enthusiastically together, keeping
in direct touch with each other through the medium of personal
letters and the exchange of program ideas. An article[s] in the constitution
handed down from the Mother Chapter, Alpha, provided that
correspondence be carried on with other chapters at least once in
every two months. The spirit of sisterhood was deeply rooted in
the BETA and GAMMA CHAPTERS by the sorors from the Mother Chapter
who set them up, but the monthly chapter letter exchange proved
to be a great inspiration to each chapter, and it contributed largely
to the successful activity of these chapters.

    The influence of the sisterhood was developing and considerable
interest was shown by members of these three chapters as was
demonstrated when they sought fertile fields in which to plant [a]
more Delta seeds of "sweetness and light." BETA Chapter being in
the Middle West, and nearer to many accredited universities and [a]
colleges at which a desired number of Negro women were enrolled,
took the initiative in the program of expansion.

   During the fall of 1918, information came to the members of
BETA Chapter that there were students at the State University of
Iowa who were interested in DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY. The corresponding
secretary of Beta Chapter, officially communicated with the
young women at the State University of Iowa, and after due consideration,
investigation, and approval of all necessary details,
Soror Edwinna Woodyard (Primas), Beta chapter, journeyed out to [a]
Iowa City, Iowa, and set up DELTA Chapter on April 4, 1919, The
charter members of this chapter were: Helen Dameron Beshears, Mamie
Diggs (Robertson), Harriette Alexander (Vines), Ola Calhoun (Morehead)
Helen Lucas (Banks), Adah Hyde (Johnson), Violetta London
(Fields) and Elizabeth Gross (Green). Attorney Gertude Durden Rush,
only Negro women lawyer in the State of Iowa, was inducted an
Honorary member at this time. Delta Chapter maintained, with the
aid of the Iowa State Federation of Colored Women's Clubs under the
direction of the late Mrs. S. Joe Brown, for many years a Sorority
House, the only one in the DELTA SIGMA THETA chain excepting at a
Howard University where Alpha Chapter had one. 


Soror Woodyard, very interested in DELTA SIGMA THETA chapter
organization,soon became well acquainted with a group of young
women from Ohio State University who were desirous of becoming
affiliated with DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY. The corresponding
secretary of Beta Chapter, Soror Rachel Brock Pratt,
assisted Soror Woodyard with the investigation. In June of 1919
Soror Jennie Mustapha (Tate) was assigned to a position as Secretary
of the Y.W.C.A. in Columbus, Ohio. Soror Woodyard arranged
it with Soror Mustapha to assist in evaluating the personalities
as well as the records of the applicants. All things being
found satisfactory, and after securing the approval of Alpha, Gamma
and Delta Chapters,Soror Woodyard, assisted by Soror Mustapha,
set up Epsilon Chapter on November 19, 1919 with the following
persons as charter members: Phila Ann McG illery (White), ##
Epsilon Chapter designed a pledge pin which was later adopted as
the official pledge pin of the Sorority.

    With the fifth chapter established, it began to look as
though DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY was destined for national importance----
the dream of the founders. 

##Charter members omitted
above through error:
Catherine Thompson(Alexander)
Bernice N. Copeland
Fairy Shores Burrell
Alberta Henley

DELTA TAKES STEPS TOWARD NATIONALIZATION

Six years had passed since DELTA SIGMA THETA became a
chartered sorority in Washington, D.C. Five chapters of the
Sorority were functioning in peace and harmony, realizing
fully well that sisterhood among the chapters and within the
individual chapters was the main thing that would inspire
sorors everywhere to disseminate the spirit of "sweetness and
light" and service. In order to bind themselves closer together
by the tie of devotion [and] love, which would inspire in them
the desire to perform finer service for humanity, and to work
in a systematic manner, the chapters established unanimously
expressed their eagerness to meet in a convention for the purpose
of putting into operation the machinery for nationalization. 
Responding to the invitation of Alpha Chpater at Howard University,
Washington, D.C., extended through its president, Soror
Carrie Jane Sutton (Brooks), three of the five existing chapters
sent respresentatives to what was to be known as the FIRST
NATIONAL CONVENTION OF THE DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY. The convention
assembled on the Howard University campus on December 
27, 1919, with Alpha, Gamma and Epsilon chapters represented.
Beta chapter's delegate, being detained at the last moment on
account of a sudden death in her family, and Delta chapter's
representative, finding the distance and expense too great between
Iowa City, Iowa, and Washington, D.C., were absent. They
both contacted the sorors in session to register their co-operation
and authorization to count them in favor of any measures
voted by those in session.

8      The official representatives from the chapters together
with the sorors who lived in and near the city of Washington and 
who were in attendance at the meetings were called to order by
the president of the mother chapter, Soror Sutton, who presided
during the program of welcome. The hostess chapter, after expressing
the purpose of the gathering, suggested that the courtesy 
of presiding be extended to a representative from a guest 
chapter. The selection of temporary officers resulted in Soror
Sadie Tanner Mossell (Alexander), Gamma chapter, being chosen
temporary chairman of the conference, and Soror Catherine Thompson
(Alexander), Epsilon, was asked to serve as temporary
secretary.

                                         The conference resolved itself into
                                          a committee of a Whole to


                                                        Around the first                  
                                                   Conference    Table                               



draw up a set of rules to regulate the immediate conference,
to work out an appropriate constitution for the proposed national
sisterhood, and to discuss problems involved in perfecting
such an organization. The plan to nationalize was put to a 
vote. It was adopted.

     A national program was suggested and decided upon, uniformity
of procedure was outlined, and the authority and official
guidance were centralized by the election to office certain
young women charged with the responsibilities and destiny of
the newly created GRAND CHAPTER OF THE DELTA SIGMA SORORITY.

     The group then declared itself in convention assembled---
in its first national convention. After three days of serious 
deliberation and an equal number of days of happiness and inspiration
and being entertained with the warm hospitality of
the Alpha Chapter sorors, the FIRST NATIONAL CONVENTION elected
the following officers to serve until the convention of 1920:
Grand President, Soror Sadie Tanner Mossell (Alexander) of
Gamma Chapter, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Recording Secretary,
Soror Catherine E. Thompson (Alexander), Epsilon Chapter,
Columbus, Ohio; Corresponding Secretary, Soror Anne McCary
(Dingle) Alpha Chapter, Washington, D.C.; Treasurer, Soror
Virginia M. Alexander, Gamma                
Chapter, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania         
Journalist, Soror                                       
Bernice N. Copeland, Epsilon 
Chapter, Columbus, Ohio; Custodian,  
Soror Harriette Robinson,     
Alpha Chapter, Washington,                   
D.C. The offices of Vice-                         
President, Chaplain, and                           
Sergeant-at-arms were reserved           
for Beta and Delta chapters                     
to fill. Accordingly, from                        
the nominees sent by Beta                      
and Delta chapters as reply                    
to the correspondence sent                   
them, Soror Geraldine E. Jackson,         
Beta Chapter, Wilberforce,                   
Ohio was chosen Vice-President,          
while Sorors Mildred I. Griffin                                        Photo of
(Dobson), Delta Chapter, and                                               
Hazel Shaw(Maynard), Delta                                                   Soror Mossell
Chapter, Iowa, were given the
posts of Chaplain and Sergeant                                      First Grand President 
at-arms respectively. 

     The delegates and visitors, as well as the hostess chapter,
to the FIRST NATIONAL CONVENTION of DELTA SIGMA THETA, SORORITY,
with renewed determination and a greater belief in the possibilities
of the sisterhood stood with bowed heads and hands joined while the
benediction was said and the hymn "God Be With You
'Til We Meet Again" was sung, and the convention closed to
meet at Wilberforce University, the seat of Beta Chapter, in
1920. 

Delta Experiments in Nationalization
The first year of Delta's national existence was especially interesting,
probably because everything was new, everyone was pioneering
in the field of sorority activity, and since every project was
more or less experimental, the sorors seemed individual and collectively
deeply concerned. To strengthen the bond, as well as lengthen
the chain, rapid expansion took place. The growth of the Sorority
under its first National President was phenomenal.
Setting the machinery into motion during the year 1920 was not an
easy task; however, the official cabinet demonstrated its zeal y its
interested co-operation in the fraternal experiment, and the Grand
President, herself, was determined to exert every ounce of her energy 
to achieve success.
To the Delta chain the first 1920 link was added when Soror Edwinna
Woodyard, Beta, was instructed to establish Zeta Chapter at the
University of Cincinnati. Seventeen undergraduate and graduates were
inducted into charter membership in October. Those persons who formed
the first Negro fraternal organization on the University of Cincinnati
campus were undergraduates, Blanche Dixon(Belsinger) Louise Penn (Sandipher)
Beatrice Morton, Ida Mae Rhodes, and Laverne Friason (Watson,
and graduates, Cleo Hall (Perry) Sarah White, Mary Holloway (Weatherly), 
Edith Howard, Ethel LaMay Calimese, Neola Robinson, Martha Hall Ross,
Maude Ragan, Mary Lee Tate, Jennie Austin (Fletcher), Marie Belsinger
(Ryder) and Camille Friason (Hood).
10 The Grand President, Soror
Mossell, added two more links herself
when she journeyed to Syracuse and
Cornell Universities and set up Eta
and Theta Chapters on Thanksgiving 
Day. Soror Alice Lucas (Brickler) 
was the leader for Syracuse's Eta
Chapter, while Soror Irene Trigg accepted
the charter for Theta Chapter
at Cornell
[*cut of Soror Woodyard
or
a picture appropriate to
this chapter of the 
history narrative*]
The Grand Journalist, Soror
Bernice N. Copeland, issued a call
for all chapters to submit a suggested name for the Journal. Many suggestions
were sent in, and the Journalist, with the consent of the President
sent the list to the existing chapters for vote. The one sent in by
Delta Chapter, State University of Iowa, was selected by the chapters.
That name---THE DELTA---is one by which our official Sorority
magazine is still known.
[*cut showing likeness of early
periodicals*]

The time for an opportunity to let the sorors see how well the
nationalization experiment had worked was almost at hand.
Great preparations for the Second Annual Convention of DELTA THETA
SORORITY were being made by Beta Chapter at Wilberforce. The
official call was sent out by the office of the Grand President
because of the inactivity of the Corresponding Secretary.
On December 28, 1920, the Second Annual Convention assembled
in the Carnegie Library on the Campus of Wilberforce University.
Delegates were present from Alpha, Beta, Gamma, Delta, Epsilon,
Zeta, Eta, and Theta Chapters. Every chapter established to date
was represented at this convention. The convention was presided
over by Soror Sadie Mossell, who was commended or her fine
leadership, praised for the manner in which she conducted the
work of her office, and loved for her wonderful personality which
was the embodiment of "sweetness and light". She was re-elected
Grand President for the year of 1921.
Honorary membership was voted to Mrs. Florence Cole-Talbert
(McCleave) and Beta's request to perform the induction services
for her was granted. Mrs. Talbert was a recognize concert
singer, a star in Italian opera, and the recipient of the Diamond
Medal, the highest honor bestowed upon any one by Chicago Musical
College. Soror Talbert later became the composer of the music to
the DELTA SIGMA THETA NATIONAL HYMN.
Graduate chapters were authorized at Second National Convention
when petitions from graduate sorors in New York City and Washington
D. C., were presented and approved. The regulations provided
that graduate chapters may exist in places where all applying
persons, the first five of whom must be sorors already, are
graduates; the undergraduate chapters shall include only undergraduate
members, honorary and faculty sorors; but where there
are not enough graduate members and not enough undergraduate
sorors to form or warrant a separate chapter for each group, the
designation of the combined group was given as "mixed".
[*11*]
Alpha Beta Chapter, now Alpha Signa Chapter was, accordingly,
authorized to be established in New York City, and Beta Beta was
the name given the the group approved for chapter in Washington, 
D. D. That name has since been changed to beta Signa.
In addition to these graduate chapters, Iota Chapter, a mixed
chapter, was authorized for the applying group in Boston,
Massachusettes. Soror Virginia Alexander was commissioned by the
Second National Convention to go to Boston to establish that
chapter.


Other grand officers elected at the same time were: Vice-president, 
Soror Mildred Griffin, Delta; Recording Secretary, Soror 
Rachel Brock Pratt, Beta; Corresponding Secretary, Soror Harriet 
Robinson, Alpha; Treasurer, Soror Ida Rhodes, Zeta; Chaplain,Soror 
Alice Brickler, Eta; Sergeant-at-arms, Soror Irene Trigg, Theta; 
Parliamentarian, Soror Virginia Alexander, Gamma; Custodian, Soror 
Lena Edwards, Alpha; and Journalist, Soror Bernice N. Copeland.

Honorary members in attendance at the convention were Soror 
Hallie Q. Brown, Soror Melvinia Mitchell, and Soror Julie Gee.

DELTA SIGMA THETA "MAY WEEK" was inaugurated at this convention. 
"MayWWeek", the brain child of Soror Mossell, was the designation 
given the observance by the chapters of DELTA SIGMA THETA 
SORORITY throughout the country of a special educational program 
stressing "Higher Education for Negro Women". The first "May Week" 
was observed in 1921. The idea of setting aside a special period 
in the month of May for emphasizing to Youth in various communities 
in which Delta Chapters were located the need and advantages 
of higher education was met with great approval and enthusiasm 
from the public. The first slogan adopted was "INVEST IN EDUCATION". 
For years the tiny red and white seals bearing the words 
of this theme were seen on envelopes and parcels of mail being 
dispatched everywhere throughout the country during the month of 
May. It is believed that the many 
"INVEST IN EDUCATION" programs that 
the DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY has 
sponsored have been the actual stimili 
responsible for much of the advancement 
made by women in educational,
scientific, fine arts, and the professional 
fields.  Many of the sorors of 
DELTA SIGMA THETA have demonstrated 
unusual ability in the field of business 
enterprise, insurance, and banking. 
Their success has been inspiration 
to numbers of young people to 
whom business education has appealed.  
Honorary Soror Margaret Murray Washington, 
who with her famous husband, was 
interested in vocational education, and 
therefore DELTA SIGMA THETA, through 
her and others who emphasized industrial 
education for women, can be credited 
with having been among the forerunners 
of to-day's most widely stressed 
phase of education --- vocational education.

THE DELTA-CHAIN LENGTHENS

Shortly after the beginning of the new year of 1921, both the
recording secretary and the corresponding secretary of the Grand
Chapter became ill. These illnesses could not be prevented, but
overtaking two secretaries at the same time and during this particular
period in the program of expansion, they caused the administration
to be placed in a rather unfortunate position-- that of
having no secretary at all. Secretarial assistance was very necessary to
the office of Grand President. Soror Mossell enlisted the services
of Soror Edna Johnson(Morris), Beta, to assist during the emergency.
Soror Johnson, along with the Grand President, was able to contact
university deans of women concerning the standards and records of
applicant young women at various colleges to whom DELTA SIGMAN
THETA had appealed. They located "key" persons or sorors residing
in localities where chapters were both applied for and desirable,
in an effort to secure references concerning prospective Delta
material.

The University of California Dean of Women, Mrs. Lucy Stebbins,
referred to Delta a list of young women whom she felt would meet
the highqualifications of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY. The authorized
sorority standards were sent to her, and she recommended
each girl as satisfying those requirements. Soror Ida Mae Myller,
Beta, being in California on another mission was commissionedto investigate
the group for the Grand Chapter. Upon the receipt of her
favorable report, the Grand President, authorized Soror Myller to
establish Kappa Chapter on February 21, 1921. The charter members
of the first Greek letter organization for Negro college men or
women established on the Pacific included Soror Vivian Osborne Marsh
in whose house the establishment took place, and who later became
National President of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY. Others inducted
were: Onilda Taylor, Elizabeth Gordon, Louise Thompson, Creola Cook,
Myrtle Price and Gladys Brown.

Back in the Middle-west, correspondence was being carried on
between the officers of the Grand President and Secretary pro tem
and Soror Margaret Watkins(Hardiman),Beta,concerning a chapter in
Chicago. Soror Osceola McCarthy Adams and Soror Marguerite Young
Alexander, both founders of DELTA SIGMA THETA were living in Chicago.
Soror Watkins, Marie Ody(Cobb) Beta, and Soror Vivian Mason(Brown),
Alpha Chapter, were also residing in Chicago while attending school
in that city. These sorors recommended a chapter, including a few
students at the University of Chicago. After the non-Delta women
had been approved for membership, a charter for a mixed chapter was
granted the applicants in Chicago, Illinois. The following were
chapter members of Lambda Chapter in 1291: Sorors Osceola Adams,
Marguerite Y. Alexander, Vivian Mason, Marie Ody, Harriet Alexander
Vines (Delta Estelle Webster(McNeal) and Tillie H. White, graduates
of Fisk University, but studying at the University of Chicago were
accepted as charter members also. Soror Osceola Adams, the first
president of Lambda Chapter. later became the Grand Treasurer of
DELTA SIGMA THETA, Lamda chpater was re-organized four years later,
when the graduate chapter Theta Beta, now Theta Sigma chapter, was
established. 
Soror Edwinna Woodyard(Primas) Beta, and Soror Marie McNeal,
also of Beta, residents of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, during the

summer, found a group of students at the University of Pittsburgh, 
who, with Soror Eilleen Springfield Clark, Beta, were desirous of 
having a chapter established in that city.  Permission was granted 
and, aside from Sorors McNeal and Clark, the following became 
charter members of Mu chapter: Elbertha Davis, Gladys Greene, 
Dorothy Lewis, and Rose Willis.  After transferring from Beth, 
Soror Woodyard Primas became a member of Mu Chapter, from which 
chapter, she was elevated to the office of Grand Vice-president 
the following December, in Philadelphia.
Mu Chapter, with charter members: Jessie Craig, Betty Wickliffe, 
Thelma Childs, Prudence Beasley (Perry) and Soror Marie 
Nackley, Beta, was authorized on June 10, 1921 by Grand President, 
Soror Mossell, and established by Soror Hackley, then in the 
Medical School of the University of Michigan.
Thus the Delta Chain had been extended from the Atlantic 
Seaboard to the Pacific Coast and from the northern border to 
Cincinnati, the gate-way to the South.
14

DELTA RECOGNIZES NEED FOR SPECIFIC SAVINGS
A year of constructive work was done, and another convention 
was at hand.  Gamma Chapter, at the University of Pennsylvania 
(Philadelphia) was the hostess for the THIRD NATIONAL
CONVENTION OF DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY.
The Third National Convention of the Sorority convened on 
the University of Pennsylvania campus.  The Grand President, 
Soror Mossell, presided.  Soror Pauline Young, Gamma Chapter, 
and Soror Johnson, Beta, served the convention as secretaries 
in the absence of Sorors Pratt and Robinson, who were still ill.
Special accomplishments of this convention were the establishment 
of a Housing Fund and a Sinking Fund.  The making of 
constitutional changes in keeping with the needs of a growing 
organization was another occasion for directed thinking on the 
part of those into whose hands the destiny of Delta Sigma Theta 
had been placed.
A definite procedure for the admission 
of associate members was decided 
upon, and the distinction between 
associate and honorary membership 
was explained and approved.  It 
was at the Philadelphia convention 
that the classification of "associate" 
membership was adopted.  It was brought 
out that it would be helpful, especially 
to an undergraduate chapter, if a special 
classification were approved for certain 
new sorors, who, most generally, are 
persons considered useful in the life 
of the community or the campus, and who 
are eligible for the Sorority and outstanding
in their field of work or accomplishment, 
but who, for one reason 
or another did not go into a sorority 
while undergraduates and are taken into 
the Sorority after graduation.  At that time, 1921, 
the chapter members were the younger people, most of them undergraduates on 
a campus, and the prospective associate members were the older 
women "holding positions of local fame, attainment" and who were 
outstanding in their achievement.  Associate member classification 
was designed to protect the young people's right to control 
in their chapter by making it mandatory that an associate soror 
remain in the chapter without voting and office-holding privileges, 
and without voice in serious controversial matters, unless 
invited by the chapter to participate in them or to give advice, 
for a period long enough to satisfy the chapter that the associates 
have a permanent interest in being members of the Sorority, 
that they wish to be helpful and co-operative, and to be 
an asset to the chapter and to the community of which the chapter 
is a part.  It was provided that at any time the chapter deemed it fitting, it 
could recommend to the Grand Chapter that such associate soror
receive full membership privileges.  The request would be granted 
at the next convention.  As the Sorority grows older, and 
women become members of the Sorority earlier in life, the need 
for this protection to the young college girls seems to be disappearing, 
and the recent application of this classification 
has been noted as the method by which graduates, in general, 
are admitted to the chapter.

The report on the study of colleges and universities, especially
in the South, and the material found at these colleges
and universities showed that it received no little attention
from Soror Mossell. Her decisions, recommendations, and rejections
were the result of thorough investigation and deliberation.
The work later delegated to a Committee on Standards and
a Committee on Scholastic Grades occupied a considerable
amount of the time of the Grand President in earlier years. it may be
said to the credit of Soror Mossell that the type of sorors approved
for membership in Delta Sigma Theta Sorority by her, as
Grand President, was the highest, because this very thorough
investigation of the records, reputation, and character of the
early initiates of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority. The principles
laid down by the founders of Delta Sigma Theta and the perpetuation
of the ideals upon which the Sorority was based were of
utmost importance.

A new office was created at the Third National Convention.
The Sorority felt that it needed an officer to assist in the
matter of investigation, of proposed chapter seats, of transcripts,
of prospective members, of the national record, repute,
and activity of proposed honorary members, and other matters referred
to such an office. Soror Ida Rhodes, Cincinnati, became
the first and was the only National Representative, as the new
office was captioned. Sometime afterwards, this office was
abolished, when the Grand Convention established the offices of
sectional vice-presidents, which in their turn, gave way to Regional
Directors.

Difficulties at Boston were encountered by Soror Virginia
Alexander, who had been authorized by the 1920 convention to set
up Iota Chapter, and it had been impossible up to the date of
the 1921 convention, to get that chapter established. It was
re ported by Soror Alexander that a few of the prospective members
of the Iota chapter would be in Baltimore during the holiday
season. The convention voted to have Sorors Alexander, Edna
Johnson, Ida Rhodes, Ethel LaMay Calimese, ALice Locas, Vivian
and Ellariz Mason, along with the Grand President, Soror Mossell
go to Baltimore after the close of the convention and initiate
the prospectives there, in order that they, as a nucleus for
Iota, might more enthusiastically proceed with the plans for the
formal establishment of Iota Chapter. The Misses Charlotte West,
Thelma Garland, and Ware, young women who were attending Radcliffe
and Brown Universities, respectively, were duly initiated
by this group on December 31, 1921.

Soror Mosell was re-elected to serve her third year as
Grand President of the Delta Sigma Theta Sorority. Other grand
officers elected were: Vice-president, Soror Edwina Woodyard;
Recording Secretary, Soror Edna B. Johnson, Beta; Corresponding
Secretary, Soror Ethel LaMay, Zeta; Treasurer, Soror Virginia
Alexander, Gamma; Journalist, Soror Anna Johnson, Gamma; Representative,
Soror Ida Rhodes, Zeta; Sergeant-at-arms, Soror
Vivian Marsh, Kappa; Chaplain, Soror Marie Ferguson, Omicron; 
and Custodian,Lillian Woodyard, Alpha.

THE THIRD NATIONAL CONVENTION adjourned with the FOURTH
NATIONAL CONVENTION scheduled to meet in Iowa City or Dos Moines,
Iowa with Delta Chapter, the fourth established chapter as hostess
chapter.

AN INVESTMENT IN EDUCATION
The 1921 convention having authorized their establishment, 
Xi, Omicron, Gamma Sigma, and Delta Sigma Chapters were set up 
early in 1922. Xi, chapter was established as a mixed chapter, 
because of one of the applying persons was an undergraduate 
student at McGill University in Montreal.  Soror Alzada Singleton 
(Buford) was authorized to establish Xi chapter. Soror Golda 
Crutcher, of Des Moines, Iowa, went to Lincoln, Nebraska and set 
up the undergraduate chapter at the University of Nebraska. 
Scarcity of eligible material at this institution has resulted in complete 
inactivity of this chapter, and the charter has been recalled. 
Gamma Sigma, at Cincinnati,and Delta Sigma, in Xenia, 
Ohio were authorized in response to the requests of the graduate 
Sorors of Zeta and Beta Chapters, respectively and were established 
by Grand Officers Ida M. Rhodes and Edna B. Johnson.  
The mixed chapter charters of the latter two chapters were exchanged 
for undergraduate chapter charters. During the year 
of 1922, Epsilon Sigma Chapter was approved by Baltimore, Maryland 
graduate sorors, and Soror Edna B. Johnson was authorized 
to establish Zeta-Beta, now Zeta Sigma at Tuskegee Institute.  
Soror Margaret Murray Washington, honorary member, now deceased 
invited the sorors to use her home as a Sorority House at 
Tuskegee.  Activity in this chapter during recent years has been 
rather intermittent.

The program of expansion, investigation, and the setting up 
of machinery for internal development having been carried out 
rather satisfactorily for the length of time available, the 
Grand President turned her attention to the study of certain 
national projects.  As the theme of the national education 
program sponsored by the Sorority was "INVEST IN EDUCATION" it is 
not strange that the Grand President suggested the investment of 
DELTA SIGMA THETA'S funds in educational projects. The Scholarship 
Award Fund and the College Tuition Loan Fund were conceived 
by Soror Mossell, and at the next convention, plans were discussed 
for the maintenance of such worthy projects designed to assist 
in the obtaining of an education by meritorious individuals 
and those sorors who apply to the sisterhood for financial aid 
while attending school.  The Christmas of 1922 found many Delta 
women wending their way to Chicago, Illinois, where, because of 
Delta Chapter's inability to entertain the Grand Chapter Convention 
because of the lack of members on the campus of State 
University of Iowa, Lambda Chapter, was the gracious hostess to 
the sorors in their FOURTH ANNUAL NATIONAL CONVENTION.

Cut of the 1922 National Convention

18
The fifth chapter of the Sorority, Epsilon, was hostess to the FIFTH NATIONAL CONVENTION in Columbus, Ohio, December 27-30, 1928.  The convention was called to order by the Grand President, Sadie Mossell Alexander, and welcomed by Soror Ora May Fate, President of Epsilon Chapter.

The first report of the progress of the Scholarship Fund was made at the 1923 Convention, and the convention went on record as whole-heartedly endorsing the plan of Grand President Mossell -- that of launching a permanent National Scholarship Fund to which each member would contribute along with her Grand Chapter dues the amount of two dollars per year as was adopted at the Chicago Convention did not succeed, for even the large chapters more in position than the small chapters to pay the assessment did not report the amount requested.

The Sorority has never named the Scholarship Fund.  Suggestions for naming it in honor of the Grand President, Soror Sadie Mossell Alexander, who conceived the idea of the Fund, poured into the office of the Grand Secretary, while a considerably large number of sorors suggested that the Fund be named the Coleman Scholarship Fund, as of memorial tribute to Soror Edna Brown Coleman, one of the Founders of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY.  However, no name was ever selected.  In a few years the amount in the scholarship fund had reached the point where Delta had not only established for herself an enviable record through its educational campaigns, but it had also amassed enough money to give practical aid to the cause of education.  The Sorority began providing worthy students with funds with which they could remain in school.

The convention conferred Honorary Membership on Mrs. Mary McLeod Bethune upon the recommendation of Honorary Soror Hallie Q. Brown, Soror Naomi Cherot, Beta, and supported by Soror G. Dorothy Pelham (Beckley), Beta Sigma.  At this convention it was voted that names of nationally known women eligible for Honorary Membership were to be submitted to the Executive Council or to the Grand Convention assembled.  Upon election, these women could receive the honor at the National Convention.  All sorors listed by local chapters as Honorary Members up to date of the 1923 Convention were voted not only as honored members of the local chapters but as Honorary Members of DELTA THETA GRAND CHAPTER and the number of Honorary members allowed in the entire organization was set at thirty.

The convention authorized the establishment of several chapters Sigma Chapter at Atlanta, Georgia; Tau Chapter at Detroit, Michigan; Upsilon Chapter, at University of Southern California; and Eta Beta later changed to Eta Sigma, and now Beta Delta at Dallas, Texas.

Meeting in Columbus, Ohio, simultaneously with the Grand Chapter of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY was the General Convention of the ALPHA PHI ALPHA FRATERNITY.  DELTA SIGMA THETA sorors were special guests of the ALPHA PHI ALPHA fraters on their Pilgrimage to the Shrine of Paul Lawrence Dunbar, poet laureate.  Both at the Dunbar home in Dayton, and at the Annual Banquet of the ALPHA PHI ALPHA 


19
FRATERNITY in Columbus, Soror Alexander, Grand President of DELTA SIGMA THETA ably represented the Grand Chapter.  At the banquet she spoke on "The Growth of Sororities."

Soror Sadie Nossell.  She had become the bride of Attorney Raymond Pace Alexander on Thanksgiving Day, 1923, declined the nomination of President for a fifth terms, and Soror G. Dorothy Pelham, Beta Beta Chapter, now Beta Sigma, of Washington, D. C., was elected to the presidency of the Grand Chapter, DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY.

Upon the unanimous approval of the convention body, Soror Alexander became the First Honorary Grand President of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY.  Since that time each president of the Grand Chapter upon retirement from that office receives the title of Honorary Grand President.  Life membership and all the privileges thereof are given each Past President, who in turn pledges support and to give helpful advice when requested to do so by the presiding officer.

Other officers elected were: First Vice-president, Soror Vivian O. March, Kappa; Second Vice-president, Soror Martha Hall, Gamma Sigma; Corresponding Secretary, Soror Alzada Singleton (Buford) Xi; Recording Secretary, Soror Edna B. Johnson, Zeta Beta, now Zeta SIGMA Treasurer, Soror Osceola Adams, Lambda; and Journalist, Soror Pauline A. Young, Zeta Sigma.  In order to curtail certain transportation expenses, it was ruled by the 1923 convention that the remaining officers be filled not later than October of the following year from the list of delegates, visitors, or local hostess sorors expected to be in attendance at the next convention.

Summing up the responsibilities assumed by the First Grand President of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY, Soror Sadie Nossell Alexander, we find that, among many other things accomplished, the following were enthusiastically and well done during her administration; the seed of nationalization was planted and cultivated; the Sorority organization was built from the ground up, so to speak by gathering into its membership chapters composed of women of courage culture, intelligence, poise, of like potentialities, and pledged to uphold the same ideals; a national educational program and project were launched in order to stimulate and hold the interest of the members, and finally, the National Scholarship Award and the Scholarship Funds were established to aid worthy young women students in college.

20
DEVELOPING INTERNAL EFFICIENCY

The Sorority, as aforesaid, having enjoyed a rapid growth under the previous administration was ready by 1924 for a program emphasizing internal development lest its growing size render it unwieldy.  It was this task of providing such a progress that confronted Soror G. Dorothy Pelham, SECOND NATIONAL PRESIDENT of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY.  Soror Pelham proved herself equal to the occasion and to be a most capable fearless, and energetic executive.

She advocated close supervision and sympathetic guidance of new and young chapters by Grand Chapter officers who resided in close proximity to them.  She further urged the promotion of complete and definite progress for extending the influence of the local chapters into the life of the college and community.

The establishment of the one undergraduate, one graduate, and four mixed chapters authorized by the Columbus Convention became the first business of the year.  Grand Vice-president, Soror Marsh, set up Pi Chapter in Los Angeles, California; Soror Lillian Alexander was commissioned to establish Rho Chapter, an undergraduate group in New York City, and the Grand Secretary, Soror Edna B. Johnson, was sent to Atlanta, Georgia to induct Sigma Chapter into the fold, Soror Prudence Beasley (Perry), assisted by Soror Sara Pelham (Speaks) was charged with the responsibility of forming Tau chapter at Detroit, Michigan.  Eta Beta, the graduate chapter was organized under the direction of Soror Fredericka Chase Dodd, a founder, living in Dallas, Texas.

To Soror Pelham's administration goes the credit for promoting general efficiency in the organization by the introduction and use of printed forms for reports, applications, pin orders, and other formal documents.  She further inaugurated a program for uniformity in the method of and the time of filing certain chapter records with the Grand officers.  The DELTA SIGMA THETA BULLETIN, an official and confidential organ of the Sorority was the result of Soror Pelham's unusual planning ability.  In it important announcements from the executive officers were placed, and items of general interest to the closed membership 


21
were released through its columns.  Soror Pelham proposed the Sorority's calendar which was printed in the Bulletin to serve as a guide to officers and members and to make it possible for all chapters and sorority members to be more definitely informed concerning the dates for certain Sorority procedures.  This secured uniform action through out the country.  Delta's continued interest in and aid to education of young Negro women was shown by the progress being made in the upward climb of the Scholarship Fund . Among the first soarers to be benefitted by the National Scholarship Awards were Soror Ida Redmond, Eta, and Soror Louise Drake, Gamma.

BROADMINDED VISION ASSURES INTERNAL PROGRESS

For days, weeks, months, and even a whole year the sorors of Alpha Beta and Rho Chapters had planned for the biggest convention in the history of DELTA SIGMA THETA Socority which opened in New York City on December 27, 1924, at the Young Women's Christian Association. Soror Pelham had previously issued the call for the delegates to come with understanding, empathy, cooperation, broadmindedness, interest, fairness and vision. When they arrived in New York and settled down to convention routine, it was in this spirit that the Grand President, officers, and delegates dispatched the business, and therefore, it was no wonder that the delegates felt that they had, in addition to fond memories, new friends, new vigor, renewed loyalty, and a greater love for our DELTA SIGMA THETA sisterhood.

The reports of chapters given at the convention showed great internal progress during the fist year of Soror Pelham's administration. The year had been indeed successful, and the official staff had been a harmonious one.

Through efforts of Soror Frances E. Gunner, Convention Committee Chairman, Mrs. Dorothy Canfield Fisher, noted novelist, was the guest speaker at the Public Meeting, and Reception. Mrs. Fisher, presented in the name of Alpha Beta Chapter, now ALPHA SIGMA 
22
the one thousand dollar scholarship to Soror Gwendolyn Bennett for foreign study in Art. Soror Bennett along with /noteworthy Race/ another artist has since opened an outstanding Art Museum in New York City.

Honorary Soror Alice Dunbar-Nelson, author of the words of our national DELTA SIGMA THETA hymn, and Honorary Soror Florence Cole Talbert (McCleave) composer of the music were both present.  Soror Nelson read the poetry, after which Soror Cole Talbert followed with the words set to the music she had composed. The two honorable sorors, together, very reverently, dedicated and gave the words and music over to DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY as its property. The convention much impressed by Soror Nelson's words and thrilled to ecstasy by the melodious strains of Soror Talbert's music, enthusiastically adopted the hymn as the official hymn of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY. Beta Chapter among other chapters, had submitted a hymn whose author was Soror Isabel Askew, and whose music was original also, having been composed by Soror Anna Dorsey Wilson. Sorors Askew, Marguerite Isby (Duncan) Evelyn Tyler, and Thelma Robinson, accompanied by Soror Wilson sang their song entry in a delightfully inspiring quartette arrangement. While the sorors were very pleased with the Beta number, it was agreed that the Sorority should have only one official National Hymn. Accordingly, the Beta hymn was given second place. Since that time, this musical composition has been known the country over as "The Beta Hymn", and is used by a number of chapters on special occasions.

Technical thinking was characteristic of Soror G. Dorothy Pelham, and those who worked with her learned, if they did not already know, just how to think technically, too.  The convention program was marked with such precision that Soror Pelham was lauded for her superior executive ability. 

In response to a request from sorors in Lambda chapter, Chicago Illinois, for a graduate and an undergraduate chapter instead of the one already existing mixed chapter, the Executive Council in session at the Sixth Annual Convention granted a charter to THETA BETA (now Theta Sigma) a graduate chapter, re-chartered Lambda chapter and authorized the re-organization of Lambda. The re-organization of Lambda Chapter and the establishment of the graduate chapter, Theta Beta were perfected in June, 1925 by Soror Martha Hall Ross, Vice-president of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY.

23


Several sorors residing in Indianapolis, Indiana, requested
the national body for a charter for a mixed chapter to be established
in that city, the seat of Butler University.  The Executive
Council approved the application, and in June, 1925,
Soror Martha Hall Ross went to Indianapolis and installed Chi
chapter.

News of the passing of one of our honorary members, Soror
Margaret Murray Washington, widow of the illustrious educator,
Booker T. Washington, astounded all the sisterhood.  As one of 
the most interested women that we had among our honorary group
of sorors, she was enshrined in the hearts of the Delta sorors,
and especially had she endeared herself to the sorors living
near her in Zeta-Beta Chapter.As representatives of the national
body Zeta Beta sorors attended and took part in the funeral rites.

Soror Edna B. Johnson, Grand Secretary , was commissioned by
the Grand President, Soror Pelham,to go to Lawrence, Kansas, and
officiate at the rites of establishment of Psi chapter on June 5,
1925.  This charter, although intended largely for the under-
graduates on the Kansas University Campus, was for a mixed chapter,
because several graduates living near Lawrence and Kansas City,
desired to maintain membership in chapter.

The next week, Soror Johnson, was authorized to set up Phi
Chapter in Des Moines, Iowa.  Drake University, Des Moines
University, and Highland Park College, Iowa State College at Ames,
and the State University of Iowa were represented in the charter
membership of this chapter.  Honorary Soror Gertrude Durden Rush
was present at the ceremonies.

This administration, so dedicated tot he problem of internal
development, did not consider any more applications for under-
graduate and mixed chapters until the 1925 National Convention.
During the year, however, Regional Conferences were authorized
and trial conferences were held in two sections of the country,
namely, the Eastern and Far-Western.

A group of graduates in Atlanta, Georgia, petitioned the Executive
Council for a chapter, so that they might function in
the city independently of the chapter primarily set apart for the
undergraduate group on the campus of the Atlanta educational
institution.  The charter was granted in the fall of 1986, just
a few weeks before the setting of the 1925 convention in Des
Moines, Iowa.

24


Phi Chapter, Des Moines, Iowa, after months of cooperative
planning for the entertaining of their sorors, was hostess chapter
for the SEVENTH NATIONAL CONVENTION  December 27-31, 1925.

This was the first time that the Sorority had crossed the
Mississippi River for a national convention session.  The people
of the West spared no pains in trying to make the few days spent
in Des Moines pleasant for the visitors.  Soror Ada Hyde Johnson,
the president, extended the welcome to the sorors after which a
very successful convention followed.

Many progressive measures were enacted, and several matters
already provided for by previous legislation were clarified and
enforced.

Upon recommendation of the Grand President, Soror Pelham, the
Regional Conferences became a permanent institution of the DELTA
SIGMA THETA SORORITY , and dates were suggested for consideration.

The Grand President proposed a program of activity great and
interesting enough to bring the many unaffiliated members back into
active affiliation with Grand Chapter and one what would create
among all members a more zealous attitude toward high scholastic
standing, academic, professional, or scientific achievement.  She
urged the democratic policy of sorority control and management.

It was brought out that DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY had reaached
the end of the Greek alphabet with the granting of permission for
the establishment of Psi Chapter.  Omega Chapter had been, by
action of the 1921 National Convention, dedicated to the sacred
memory of our departed sorors.  It was then imperative that DELTA
revise its nomenclature for chapters.

The Memorial Chapter, Omega, was transferred to the end of the 
final possible series of Greek letter combinations----that of
Omega Omega.  This double letter connotation automatically
doubled, also, the insignia used in floral designs on funeral or
memorial occasions.  The single Omega for this purpose had been
authorized by the 1921 convention.

Instead of "Beta" being used as the suffix in referring to 
graduate chapters,

25

[*out of 1925 convention*]

[*26*]

the term "Sigma" was adopted, and all graduate chapters bearing 
former suffix were ordered changed to the new "Sigma". The undergraduate 
and mixed chapters were given the prefix "Alpha" 
throughout a series, and then "Beta" was to begin the second 
series, and "Gamma" the third series, and so on down the alphabet.

        The chapter nomenclature, being necessarily revised at this 
convention, the body proceeded to name the new chapters voted 
charters. "Omega" was the name given to the chapter authorized 
for Cleveland, and which was to be set up by the Soror Ruth Howard, 
formerly of Washington, D.C.; "Alpha Alpha" was the first chapter 
of the second series, and it was the name for Greater Kansas 
City group which was to be organized by Soror Virginia Alexander, 
formerly of Philadelphia: "Alpha Beta" was reserved for the chapter 
approved for Fisk University to be established by Soror 
Lillian Alexander, of New York City, while Alpha Gamma was assigned 
to the girls of Morgan College in Baltimore, which chapter was 
to be honored by being established by the Grand President Soror 
Pelham or someone she should later name. 

          This convention marked the beginning of the practice authorized 
by the 1921 convention in Philadelphia-- that of bestowing full 
membership privileges upon an associate member recommended for such 
by her chapter. Soror Esther Popel Shaw, an associate member 
of Gamma Chapter, being the first person in the sorority to be taken 
in a chapter under that classification, was likewise the first 
soror to receive active status at a National Convention. Soror 
Pauline Young, Grand Journalist, and delegate from Gamma Chapter, 
brought the recommendation from Gamma Chapter, Soror Shaw received 
the honor "in absentie". Sorors Joan Minerva Bullock, an 
associate from Delta Chapter, and Soror Juanita Ewing, an associate 
member of Phi Chapter, were also received into active membership at this first ceremony designed for such purpose. They were recommended 
by their respective chapters through their presidents, 
Soror Alberta Green (Guy),Delta; and Soror Adah Hyde-Johnson, Phi.

        The fearless and courageous spirit of the sorors led by 
Soror Pelham was definitely shown by the issuance of the pronouncement 
which follows in part:

          "We, the members of the Grand Chapter of 
the DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY, a sisterhood 
of college women in convention assembled, on 
this twenty-eighth day of December, nineteen 
hundred and twenty-five, do give forth the 
following pronouncement:

[*27*]

-- We feel deeply the need for protection against the growing prejudice
of all kinds in the United States of America. The time
has come when we feel called upon to give voice for the first
time to the strong feelings which have possessed us.

As American citizens, our claim to justice and equity is the
general claim of all Americans and the specific claim of a race
that has made its contribution to the development of the life of
this country in all its phases; of a race whose sacrifices have
been recorded in every authentic record of American effort. It
has freely shed its blood from the period of the making of the
country up to the time of the war from which the nation is recovering.
Despite the prejudices of so many of its fellow Americans,
its loyalty to the nation of which it is a part has never been
questioned. In the face of grave prejudice it is a part has never been
questioned. In the face of grave prejudice it has steadfastly
refused to grow embittered....

We commend all who have taken a stand against unjust discrimination
of any sort-- even the most trivial; those who stood
their ground and those who have supported them in their stand...

On the other hand we condemn the actions of those who have
proved Januses in times of racial stress--- who have posed as possessing
American ideals but who are wholly un-American, if "America"
is to be interpreted in the light of her origin.

We do most solemnly condemn, and call upon all fair-minded 
men and women to condemn, the attempts at property rights discrimination
and personal rights that are at present being made. We
see in these attempts the agencies for the destruction of the
very fabric of our democracy.

We, therefore, urge all true Americans of whatever race to
greater unity, greater courage and perseverance in opposing prejudice
and its varied manifestations."

The above document merits a place in the annals of DELTA SIGMA
THETA SORORITY, for it well indicates the determination of the sorors
to live up to their creed!:

I will take an active interest in the welfare of my country
using my influence toward the enactment of laws for the protection
of the unfortunate and weak and for the repeal of those depriving
human beings of their privileges and rights,
and
I will not shrink from undertaking what seems wise and good,
because I labor under the (double) handicap of race (and sex);
but striving to preserve a calm mind with a courageous and cheerful
spirit, barring betterness from my heart, I will struggle all
the more earnestly to reach the goal.

Out in the West
After they had done their best
The Sorors closed their convention
Friends they made and good times they have
After all Iowa was not so bad.

During the year, trial Regional Conferences had been held in two sections of the country, namely, in the Eastern and Far-Western Regions.  It had been clearly demonstrated that those advantages was the furthering of education in Delta ideals and principles through "intensive internal development" such as could be done through small regional groups.  Adjusting problems of local nature for the good of the whole organization was another valuable feature of the Regional sessions.

To the Delta Kappa Epsilon Quarterly may go the credit for the paragraph, but it seems quite a propos in that it expresses the underlying philosophy justifies the existence of Regional Conferences so well that it is reproduced here:

"Half of the charm of a national fraternity (sorority) would be lost if all of the members were the product of the same conditions.  All members have the same ideals, but the expression of those ideals is modified by geographical environments.  Instead of regretting those differences, we should seek to use what we can of them for our own increased general efficiency.  Instead of withdrawing within ourselves, we should seek to communicate our ideas for the fraternity's (sorority's) increased efficiency."

Thus enthusiasm coupled with a spirit of good will and readiness for serious work characterized the experimental conferences of 1925.

THE DRIVE ON INACTIVITY 

Grand President Pelham, having been re-elected to serve a third term, the year of 1925 was entered into without any major change of procedure.  Soror Marsh was returned to her office, as First Vice-president, and all of the other officers except Soror Ross, the Second Vice-president, were continued in office.  Soror Ross was unable to be present at the convention because of the death of her father, Bishop I. N. Ross.  Soror Virginia Alexander of the new Alpha Alpha Chapter, and former Grand Treasurer was elected Second Vice-president.

Previous legislation had provided for a class of members known as Corresponding Members.  Because of the large number of graduate sorors constantly locating themselves in places remote from chapter seats, on account of their work of the change in residence, reviving this method for activity among these graduate sorors was appropriate.  This step was welcomed by sorors who had been far away from chapter contact, and at once many inactive sorors resumed activity.  Full representation and voting privileges being allowed such members at the National and Regional Assemblies, provided at least six financially active sorors present at the gathering named a delegate, seems to encourage the floating sorors to seek active statue.  Delta Unites were authorized in communities where at least three corresponding members were able to get together to execute a local program in the name of the DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY, and legislation was enacted for the government of such groups.

The Regional Conferences were authorized to convene in April 1926.  The Regional Directors were the Grand President, Soror Pelham, and the two vice-presidents, each of them elected by the Grand Chapter Convention with respect to the different geographical location of their residence.  Soror Pelham, Grand President, being from the East, presided over the Eastern Region, and her conference was scheduled for April 2nd and 3rd in Washington, D. C., while the First Vice-president, Soror Vivian O. Marsh, living in the Far West, became the presiding officer for the Far Western Conference, which was summoned to meet on the same dates in Berkeley, California.  The Mid-Western Conference was called to meet on April 9th and 10th, in Kansas City, Missouri, under the directorship of Soror Virginia M. Alexander, Second Vice-president, who was residing in that city.  As there was no sectional vice-president elected from the South, Soror Anna

[30]
R. Johnson (Julian), the temporary chairman of Regional Conference
presided over the first Southern Regional Conferecne, held in Atlanta,
Georgia, on April 9th and 10th. Soror Ruth Wheeler was
elected Director of the Southern Conference at the meeting. She
therefore, has the distinction of being the first Regional Director
elected by any Advisory Council of the Sorority. In later years,
the privilege of electing their own Director was extended to all
of the Regions, and the duties assigned to   sectional vice-presidents
were given to the Regional Directors. The offices of sectional
vice-presidents were, accordingly, abolished.

Aside from the establishment of the chapters authorized at the 1925 convention, only three chapters were added during the 1926.  Alpha Delta, an undergraduate chapter at West Virginia State College, was set up on June 2, 1926; Kappa Sigma, a graduate chapter, was established also in June at Houston, Texas; and Lamba Sigma Chapter, a graduate group, was formed in St. Louis, Missouri, among which sorors [sic] Madree Penn White, one of the engergetic founders of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY.
The convention of 1926 met in Cincinnati, the guests of Zeta and Gamma Sigma Chapter.  Officers' reports, as well as committee resumes indicated increasing activity.  Questionnaires and reports for study by chapters and individual members were circulated in a campaign to eliminate inactivity.  "Inactive and disinterested sorors [sic] present increasingly perplexing situations which can be remedied or precluded only by a system of drastic penalties generally known and consistently enforced", said Soror Pelham once in the drive against inactivity.
Appeals were sent out by the chairman of the Scholarship Committee, Soror Lillian Alexander, for sorors both to contribute to the Scholarship Funds and also to encourage others to use the Fund by making applications for either/or a Tuition Loan.  Notable progress was made along nearly all lines, resulting from the systematic study and compilation of information and problems encountered.
The Queen City of the West, Cincinnati, showed courtesies to the strangers that were within her gates and entertained them as few other communities can do.  The social and business routine were so arranged that work of importance was done and yet there was ample time for a bit of pleasant mingling with the citizens and sorors of Cincinnati.


[31]
Soror Pelham, like Soror Alexander, in 1923 having become a bride during the year of 1926, refused the nomination for the president for the year of 1927.  After an efficiently governed administration full of conscientious attention to duty, Soror G. Dorothy Pelham Beckley retired from office and became the Second Honorary President of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY.
Soror Ethel LaMay Calimese, former Grand Corresponding Secretary, and member of Gemma Sigma Chapter, was elected by the Third Grand President of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY to succeed Soror Beckley.  Soror Anna R. Johnson, Beta Sigma, was named First Vice-president; Soror Vivian Osborne Marsh, Second Vice-president; Soror Beatrice Morton, Secretary; Soror Annie M. Dingle, Treasurer; and Soror Madree Penn White, Journalist.  After singing "God Be With You Til We Meet Again" the EIGHT NATIONAL CONVENTION OF DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY was adjourned to meet in Washington, D.C. in 1927.

32
DELTA SIGMA THETA TAKES STOCK OF ITSELF
	Soror Calimese, more fortunate than her two predecessors, found an organization already planted and a program started by Soror Sadie Nossell Alexander, and made systematic and workable by Soror Dorothy Pelham Beckley. It was hers--Soror Calimese then, to keep forever before that organization the ideals, program, and regulated government that had established already. She found it her duty to encourage the membership to see for itself the advantages of strict regulations, and accept whole-heartedly the machinery as a tool to enable them to continue working and living as DELTA SIGMA THETA women should. Soror Calimese made a strenuous effort to adhere to and enforce the regulations and the laws of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY to the letter.
	Alpha Epsilon Chapter, at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, was granted in 1927 and was established as a mixed chapter so that both graduates living in the city and students on the campuses of Duquesne University and Carnegie Tech might be able to affiliate. Mu Chapter, being under the supervision of the university, could include only people in Pittsburgh who were attending the University of Pittsburgh.
	Alpha Zeta is the one campus chapter authorized during this administration between conventions. Alpha Zeta was established on the Talladega College campus in 1927. Three graduates chapters were given permission to organize. Mu Sigma Chapter at Norfolk, Virginia, Nu Sigma, at Los Angeles, California, and Xi Sigma Chapter at Philadelphia, the home of the first Grand President, were established.
	During 1927, the duties of the presiding officer of a Region were transferred from, the Grand President and her two vice-presidents elected accordingly to the geographical section of the country, to Directors elected by the Regions themselves. From reports made at the 1927 National Convention which was held in Washington, D.C., the birthplace of DELTA, it was brought out, as it had been stated elsewhere in this edition, that two of the most outstanding accomplishments of such regional organizations were (1) the education of Delta Sorors in the ritual, location, of chapters, prominent members, successful sorors, constitution and its working, and (2) the strengthening 


33
of the DELTA bonds by the meeting of sorors who had never met before. It was therefore, conceded that the Regional Conferences had justified their creation.
	During her second term as Grand President, in which no new chapters were considered, Soror Calinese gave the sorors time to study the history, ideals, and principles on which the organization was founded to the end that a greater appreciation of the privilege that each soror has as a member of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY might be acquired. The chapters found that taking time out once in a while to study the organization was a great spiritual benefit because it gave them a chance to increase sorority fellowship through correspondence  with other chapters, committee chairman, and the Grand Officers, and sorors, knowing them as newly found friends. This taking stock of itself was not only of great interest to DELTA SIGMA THETA, but also had very encouraging results on broadening ones own personal vision and outlook on life.
	A National Vigilance Committee, headed by Soror Layle Lane was appointed during this period. This committee was designed to keep in touch with the political and civic activities of the country as they affected the Negro race in general. The activity on educational and economic restrictions against our group. Being near Washington, D. C., the seat of the nation’s capital where a greater part of the information regarding national situations may best be gathered, the committee has been very vigilant; and for a number of years it has been a vital force, and the political mouthpiece of the organization. It has made pleas for academic freedom at Howard University, and for the President’s endorsement of some qualified Negro person for appointment to the commission to investigate conditions in Haiti, for the passage of the Anti-Lynch Bill, for the Harrison-Fletcher Bill, and other pertinent matters about which Negroes, as a Race, are concerned.
	Soror Calimese, dedicated to the ideals and principles of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY executed the duties of her office with diligence during the early part of the 1927-29 biennial period, but unfortunately, during the second year of her term, poor health overtook the Grand President, and soon the going became too difficult, and months before the term was over, Soror Calimese became inactive. After several months of rest, much to the personal

[*34*]

delight of her sorors, Soror Salimese recovered sufficiently from 
her illness to attend and preside over the deliberation of the 
1929 conclave.

	The 1929 Grand Chapter session and the first Biennial Convention 
in the history of DELTA SIGMA THETA was opened on December 
27, in the Pythian Building in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and was 
formally welcomed by Soror Lulu Howell, President of Epsilon 
Chapter;. Twenty-five chapters were seated at this convention.

	The achievements as indicated by the reports of the various 
chapters were very illuminating and further showed that the chapter 
of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY were still executing programs 
in their respective communities which reflect honor upon the 
sorority in general.

     A number of scholarship awards and scholarship loans were 
made by the Grand Chapter at this convention, Sorors Viola Arrington 
and Eulacie Shamburger were recipients of scholarship awards 
from DELTA SIGMA THETA. Soror Gussie Emanuel was enabled to study abroad in the country of France upon the recommendation of the 
Scholarship Board whose report was adopted by the Grand Chapter.

     As a considerable number of schools were applying for permission 
to have a chapter of DELTA SIGMA THETA established 
at their institutions, it was deemed expedient for definite regulations 
to be set up concerning their eligibility. Soror Juanita 
Howard Thomas became the chairman of this standing committee, and 
in years that followed, Soror Thomas and her committee performed 
some excellent work and were of invaluable assistance in this regard.  
They have been instrumental in placing DELTA SIGMA THETA 
in its present position of prestige which commands respect from 
all college groups.

     DELTA SIGMA THETA GRAND CHAPTER 
voted to become a life member of 
the Association for the study of 
Negro Life and History.
	
So that in the interest of talented 
sorors in writing might be stimulated, 
the office of Journalist was 
authorized to conduct short story 
and other literary contests and 
make awards of twenty-five dollars, 
and ten dollars, and five dollars 
to the winners of such contests. 
For some reason, there was no great 
response in this project. 
	The housing fund, as a mucleus 
for a future home and national headquarters 
was 



revived.  Many other forward steps were 
taken to insure further progress for 
DELTA SIGMA THETA.

     The Executive Council in session at 
the TENTH NATIONAL CONVENTION at Pittsburgh, 
authorized the following chapters: 
Alpha Eta, a mixed chapter at Virginia 
State College at Petersburg, Virginia, a 
graduate chapter, Omicron Sigma, at Tulsa, 
Oklahoma; a graduate chapter, (later changed 
after investigation to a mixed chapter 
before establishment) at Greenshore, North 
Carolina; Pi Sigma, a graduate chapter at 
Nashville, Tennessee; and Alpha Theta, an 
undergraduate chapter at Lincoln University, Jefferson City, Missouri.

     Because of her health and inability to serve in the capacity 
of Grand President, Soror Calimese, at the conclusion of the TENTH NATIONAL CONVENTION, became Third Honorary Grand President of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY.

36
Enthusiasm, Experience, and Effective
Influence Combine Themselves

With with the beginning of 1930, DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY took
peculiar pride in the fact that the Sorors had been encouraged to 
greater achievements, and that the sorority was beginning to make 
itself felt as a real power in the civic, economic, political,
and educational program of the country. Soror Anna R. Johnson
(Julian) who, is First Vice-president of the preceding administration, 
had been serving as leader during the incapacity of the
Grand President, now took her place at the helm of DELTA having
been elected to the office of grand President for the ensuing
biennial term at the Pittsburgh Convention. Other officers of
her cabinet were: First Vice-president, Soror Jeanette Triplet
Lambda, Chicago; Second Vice-president, Soror Jennie Baer Shief,
Beta Sigma, Washington, D. C.; Secretary, Soror Grace Woodson,
Delta Sigma, Wilberforce, Ohio; Treasurer, Soror Marion L. Palmer
(Capps), Mu, Sigma, Norfolk, Virginia; and Journalist, Soror Sara
Pelham Speaks Beta Sigma, Washington, D. C.

The new administration entered upon its work with enthusiasm.
The new Grand President, Soror Johnson came to the president's
chair with an unusual record of sorority activity; she, therefore, 
was able to bring with her abundant experience in DELTA SIGMA
THETA work. Soror Johnson, who first saw the light of DELTA
SIGMA THETA in Gamma chapter in 1921, was a former Grand Journalist, 
Chairman of Committee on Regional Conferences, and as before
stated, a National Vice-president. Aside from Grand Chapter
work, she was a local chapter president and was very energetic 
in the work sponsored by the local groups. Soror Johnson herself
a brilliant scholar, and holder of a phi Beta Kappa key, was
particularly fitted to carry on the work of an organization
founded upon scholarship, intelligence, culture, and loveliness.

She established Alpha Eta chapter at Petersburg, Virginia,
and authorized Soror Triplet, the First Vice-president to journey 
to Nashville, Tennessee; Jefferson City, Missouri; and Tulsa, 
Oklahoma to establish the proposed Pi Sigma, Alpha Theta, and 
Omicron Sigma Chapters, respectively, which had been granted


37
charters by the Pittsburgh Convention.

The work of the National Vigilance Committee was continued by
this administration and Soror Johnson urged local chapters to form
in their respective communities vigilance committee that would be
alert in noting and decrying any attempts at unfair, un- American,
and discriminatory practices in the immediate vicinity of chapters,
and to resort to the National Vigilance Committee any such situations 
that they could not succeed in resisting or correct.

For years voices had been raised demanding that the Greek-letter
societies adopt some constructive policy which would benefit not
only the membership of the organizations themselves, but the Negro
Race, and especially its women. The keeping of the vigil by the
DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY NATIONAL VIGILANCE COMMITTEE has been on
answer to those pleas, and much work has been accomplished. The
voice of DELTA SIGMA THETA has been heard in a number of national
troubles involving the rights, treatment, and fair employment of the
Negro. Effective influences were set in motion with appreciable
results.
Other note-worthy accomplishments for which the administration
of Soror Johnson was responsible were: the incorporation of the
Grand Chapter under the laws of the District of Columbia, (the
DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY at Howard University had been incorporated
in 1913, as has been related in previous pages, but it was felt that
the ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION should be either amended or the Sorority 
be further incorporated under the name of THE GRAND CHAPTER of
DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY); the bonding of the both the Grand Secretary 
and Grand Treasurer in the amount of $10,000 each in responsible 
companies; and the inauguration of a re-evaluation program to
determine the physical and the spiritual assets of DELTA SIGMA THETA
SORORITY. A campaign to decrease inactivity was resumed. A period
known as "Jubilee Year" was established in which it was hoped that
hundreds of DELTA women would-rededicate themselves to the ideals of
DELTA SIGMA THETA and return to the fold. The Grand Secretary reported 
the re-instatement of many scores during this period.

Rho sigma, Sigma Sigma, and Tau sigma, graduate chapters, and
Alpha Iota,

38
and Alpha kappa chapters, undergraduate groups were established by Soror Johnson, while on a Grand President's inspection tour of the Southwest. The chapter seats, respectively, are Shreveport, Louisiana; Austin, Texas;  Birmingham, Alabama; Marshall and Austin, Texas. Delta Chapter at Iowa was re-established. Mid-West Regional Director Bonnie Osborne. 

In December 1931, Alpha Beta and Pi Sigma Chapters of Nashville, Tennessee, entertained the Grand Chapter Convention amid pomp, glory, and grandeur. The enthusiastic labor of the Grand Officers and delegates was made all the more possible by the special feeling of warmth resulting from the kindly disposition and grand welcome extended by the Nashville sorors and the entire campus, such exuberant hospitality being typical of the "gracious Southland."

Th ELEVENTH NATIONAL CONVENTION, and Second Biennial Sesion of the DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY was formally opened with the Grand President, Soror Anna R. Johnson, presiding. 

Many reports outlining suggestions for constructive Sorority actively were heard, discussed, adopted. The Scholarship committee, Soror Jeannette Triplet, chairman, reported that it had established a system whereby scholarship attainment. 

The convention ruled that in order to keep up interest in the work of the Sorority, and to insure uniformity in procedures, and to help decrease inactivity of sorors in and around chapter seats that Grand Chapter authorize a Grand Officer or the Regional Director to visit each chapter at least once a year. The growing size of the Sorority, the inconvenience of employed sorors to got to far-scattered chapters within their given area, have been factors which have made complete compliance with this provision almost impossible. Numerous ideas were exchanged in forum talks on general sorority problems and how to insure greater efficiency in offices and prompter performance of official duties. 

The attention of the convention was called to the ever present need of an Executive Secretary. The idea of such officer had been approved by the Pittsburgh Convention, but the financial condition of the organization had not warranted carrying out the proposal. A committee was appointed to work out ways and means by which an excutive secretary night to be secured and paid a salary commensurate with the service required of such person.

Cut of the 1931 National Convention

9

Soror Johnson, although nomination to succeed herself, refused to consider re-election. 

Officers elected for the next biennial period were: Grand president, Soror Gladys Sheppard, Baltimore, former Director of eastern region and Chairman or Committee on Regional Conferences First Vice-president, Soror Naomi R. Cherot, Kansas City, Kansas; Secon Vice-president , Soror Escobede Sorreals (Pasey), under-graduate at Fisk University, Secretary. Soror Edna B. Johnson Gary, Indiana, former Grand Secretary and member first National Judiciary Board; Treasurer, Soror Marian E. Palmer, Norfolk, Virginia incument; and Journalist, Soror Edna M. Kinchion, Regional Director of the southwest.

Soror Anna Johnson, retiring Grand Presidnet. received the distinction of becoming the Fourth Honorary Grand President of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORIORITY

DELTAS VERSATILE LEADER ACHIEVES SUCCESS
The standard bearer for the biennial period beginning January 1932 was Soror Gladys Byram Shepperd, Epsilon Sigma, known to have outstanding capabilities in leadership. A modest young woman, she was faced with urgent problems of DELTA as well as with the honor of the office of Grand President. However, no problem was too difficult nor any circumstance too minor to claim her immediate attention if the consideration was something beneficial to Delta Sigma Theta.

Internal development was a part of the official program during her administration. The Grand officers and Regional Directors for the period were one hundred per cent cooperative with the administrator Soror Shepperd, herself, was an execcutive of rare ability, of strikings to duty. Therefore, it is no wonder that such a leader would be given heart cooperation in carrying out the program for DELTA.

There were exciting experiences, dramatic moments, as well as the important but general routine of business, which made this administration a delightful experience for the officers and members alike.

The most dramatic incident was probably the one which occurred when the Grand President and Soror Florida Jordan (Riley) rang a Harlem apartment door bell at nine o'clock one Sunday morning, and surprisingly found a tangled ball of threads, which, when unwound, started a matter important to Delta Sigma Theta toward a definite conclusion.

The first formal Delta Directory edited by Soror Dorothy Houston was published during this biennial period of activity, and the publications of the Sorority, under the direction of the late Soror Edna Kinchion, Grand Journalist, were released regularly. This indicated a renewed interest in Delta by the members in general, for they not only made it possible for such publications to be financed from their added dues, but they are sent in material in order to make the news possible.

A new region was established in the Central West which included the chapters in the states of Oklahoma, Kansas, Nebraska, Iowa, and Missouri. The organization of the region was perfected by the First Vice-president, Soror Naomi R. Ch[?]ret. The first conference marked an enthusiastic and inspirational beginning for the Region, christened the "Central Region".

The chapter, Alpha Mu, at Greensboro, North Carolina, authorized by the Nashville Convention was established by the Eastern Regional Director, Soror Lorraine Heathcock. 

Certain business of the Sorority necessitated the Grand President to make a trip to the Middle West, and while on this visit she extended her itinerary so that it included most of the chapters in Ohio and West Virginia. While on this tour she established Phi Sigma, a graduate chapter at Charleston, West Virginia.

Authorized by Executive Council, through the Grand President, Soror Bonnie Osborne Smith, the Regional Director, established Alpha Nu at University of Illinois. She also re-organized Omega Chapter [?] chapter in Cleveland, Ohio in May of 1972.

40
Very early in 1933, enthusiastic announcements concerning the great preparations which Lambda Chapter, Chicago, was making for the 1933 National Convention were released. The fact that the World's Fair--"The Century for Progress"-- was to be the main attraction in Chicago during the summer of 1933 made the invitation from the Chicago sorors seem more alluring. Long before the setting of the Convention which occurred on August 27, many sorors had expressed their intentions of spending their vacation in Chicago, at the convention and at the Fair.

Much legislation characterized the TWELFTH NATIONAL CONVENTION. The report of the Committee on the Revision of the Constitution made its report through its Chairman, Soror Gwendolyn Covington Lee. The acceptance of schools accredited "B" by any of the nationally known college rating agencies recognized by DELTA SIGMA THETA was a boon to the worthy young women attending schools in the great Southland. Strong opposition came from some sorors, but as in all democratic assemblies, the majority ruled.

National Boards----the members of which are subject to election by the Grand Convention, and who vacate their positions on the Board biennial rotation fashion---were created. National Committees were distinguished from the National Boards in tat they were considered appointments of the administration. It was believed that such classifications would be beneficial and would work for greater efficiency. Experience, so necessary for proper discharge of business would be assured, it was felt, if it were arranged so that only a part of the members on a given project should leave the work at the end of each biennial term and be succeeded by new members---hence the term "Board". On the other hand, each president has certain policies or projects that can be carried out during her administration. Those duties associated with the immediate administration, it was pointed out, could be most satisfactorily perform-by committees appointed by and subject directly to the administration head. 

A re-instatement tax was decreed in order that a soror might be rendered financial upon such payment in addition to the current year's fees. The Grand Chapter dues for graduate members were reduced. These measures were enacted in a sincere effort to get more graduate members to stay within the fold of DELTA SIGMA THETA and to induce those sorors who had been inactive over a period of a few years or over a long period of time to return to the sisterhood.

The 1933 National Convention saw the first presentation of the individual achievement awards for superior scholarship. A cash award of fifty dollars and a gold key were given to the undergraduate maintaining the highest average within the highest grading bracket of her school. The 1933 award was made Soror Mildred Keller. of Alpha Delta Chapter, West State College.

Soror Gladys Byram Shepperd, initiate into the Sorority by lambda Chapter, Chicago, and a member there for some time, but more recently a transferee in to the Baltimore group, retired from office at the class of this epoch-making convention amid the splendor of Chicago Lighting Institute, downtown Chicago.  The former Director of the Eastern Region and Chairman of Regional Conferences was elevated to the rank of Fifth honorary grand president of DESTA SIGMA THETA SORIORITY.  As she was crowned with the laurels of honor.

DELTA AIDS NATIONAL RECOVERY
[*42*]

It was at the F[?] NATIONAL CONVENTION of DELTA SIGMAA
THETA SORORITY that Soror Jeannete Triplet, a soror who had
serve the Sorority in a number of important capacities, was
elevated to the Grand President's office. Chief among the
offices she had held, and aside from being President of her own
chapter , Lambda, of Chicago:were Mid-Western regional Director ,
Chairman of the National Scholarship Board, and in order served
as Second vice-president and First Vice-president of The Grand
Chapter. This background enabled her to bring to the office of
Grand President much valuable experience.

Conditions arising out of the economic depression which was,
at this time about at its peak, demanded taht Delta Sigma Theta
take its place among Greek letter organizzations in the attempt to
improve the economic welfare of the Negroes of the United States.
Social legislation designed for the National Recovery had its
effect on the Negro, and to protect the interests of the Negro
a Joint Comittee on National Recovery was organized in Washing-
ton D. C. A number of Negro National organizations together with some interested white folk had representation on the Comittee.
DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY was ably represented by the Chairman
of the Nation Vigilance Committee , Soror Esther Popel Shaw, a
resident of Washington, D. C.

The Sorority was called upon to make a response to the demand
of the changing era through which the entire country was passing.
DELTA SIGMA THETA made a contribution of four hundred and ninety
dollars ($490.00) to the Joint Committee on National recovery
Working with Negroes, and became one of the four Greek-letter
groups participating in the financial support of the movement.
This agency fulfilled one of the great needs of the Race in that
it served to investigate various phases of the national
government in order to determine, the status of the Negro popu-
lation, both as to the employment situation and as to the
benefits accorded the Negro by the various government agencies.

An examination of the status of the Sorority indicated that 
the interest in the purpose, ideals, and program was on the in-
crease, having been greatly stimulated during the preceding
glowing through the potent influences of genuine Delta person-
alities developed through the inculcation of high ideals and
standards.

The year 1934 witnessed the establishment of eight under-
graduate chapters, one mixed and four graduate chapters, Alpha Xi,
at South Carolina State College, at Orangeburg; Alpha Upsilon,
at LeMoyne College, Memphis, Tennessee; and Alpha Tau at Southern
University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana; and the graduate chapter,
Alpha Gamma Sigma at Memphis, Tennessee were set up by Soror Sue 
Cowan (Morris), Southern Regional Director. The Eastern Regional
Director, Soror Mary Nightengale with the assistance of Soror 
(Dean) Hilda Davis, was authorized to form Alpha Rho at Shaw
University, Raleigh North Carolina. Soror Pauline Slater, far
Western regional Director established Omega Sigma, graduate
chapter at Berkelev, California on March 30, 1934, and reorganized
the former mixed Kappa Chapter as an undergraduate chapter.

[*43*]
Soror Ruth Alston, The Regional Director of the Mid-West,
reorganized into undergraduate chapters, Epsilon and Xi chapters,
which therefore had been mixed, and established graduate
chapters in the cities [?of] Columbus, Ohio, and Louisville,
Kentucky , as Alpha Beta Sigma and Alpha Alpha Sigma,
respectively. Soror Alston inducted Alpha Pi, at Kentucky State
College as an undergraduate chapter. Alpha Phi, a mixed chapter,
was set apart by Soror Cleota M. Spotts, Director of Central
Region assisted by Soror Naomi R. Cherot, Former Grand Vice-
President.

44

Active interest in the National Pan-Hellenic continued, and
memberships in the outstanding National organizations which exist
for the betterment of the Negro and the less fortunate were renewed,
such gestures indicating that DELTA SIGMA THETA has always
taken pride in the fact that it has for years contributed to as
many worthy causes as are possible.

In addition to the social service work and interest of DELTA
SIGMA THETA the administration was responsible for the first appearances
of the National Handbook; the Revised Printed Released
of the National Constitution; and the silver loving cup to be awarded
biennially to the chapter that beat interorets the National
program in its community. Soror Triplet, herself, is the
donor of that cup.

The administration culminated in one of the greatest conventions
in the history of the Sorority at Los Angeles, California
August 15 to 21, 1935. As characterized the previous convention,
much legislation was enacted at this convention, and an enjoyable
time out in the West was had by all sorors who made the trip there,
and by those residing in California who were the gracious charming,
and enthusiastic hostess. Indeed, the sorors of the Coast
Chapters and the citizens at large spared no pains in their
effort to make the Los Angeles Convention the biggest and best
convention that DELTA SIGMA THETA has ever had.

Reports of Grand Officers, Committee Chairmen, and Board
Chairmen showed that affective work had been done during the
biennium, and it was agreed that this splendid demonstration of
what sorors, interested and dedicated to service in Delta, can
do to act the pace for definite accomplishment, was an inspiration
for future achievement.

Machinery was set in motion for the actual employment of an
Executive Secretary and National Headquarters. The Budget
Committee, with Soror Marian Palmer (Cappa) as Chairman and
Treasurer, was charged with devising ways and means for brining
this plan to an early fruition.

Soror Triplet refused the office of President for another
term on account of both personal illness and illness in her
family. She was, therefore, named the SIXTH Honorary Grand
President of DELTA SIGMA THETA NATIONAL SORORITY.

For the first time in the history of the Sorority, an honorary
office was bestowed upon a soror other than a retiring Grand
President. The THIRTEENTH NATIONAL CONVENTION OF DELTA SIGMA
THETA conferred the honor of Grand Secretary Emeritus on Soror
Edna Johnson (Morris) in recognition of her invaluable service
to DELTA SIGMA THETA for a period of over sixteen years, ten of
which she spent as Secretary to DELTA SIGMA THETA. This was a
tribute to Soror Johnson's active interest in DELTA SIGMA THETA.

The following officers were elected: Grand President, Soror
Vivian Osborne Marsh, Berkeley, California; Vice-President, Soror
Mary Lou Davis (Robertson) Shreveport, Louisiana; Secretary Sorro
Edna M. Kanchion, Belton, Texas; Treasurer, Soror Marian Palmer

45

(Capos), Norfolk, Virginia; and Journalist, Soror Faye Jackson 
(      ) Los Angeles, California

This convention [] [] to meet in its next biennial session
at a place to be decided by the Executive Council, but in
December 1937.

Cut of the 
Triplett cup

Cut of 
Soror Jeanette Triplett

Cut of the 
1935 Banquet in Hollywood, California

Cut of the 1935 Convention
Los Angeles, California

[*46*]

Building Skyward By Far Vision

As before stated, Soror Vivian Osborne Marsh, was elected
to the high office of Grand President
at the Los Angeles Convention, and she
too, like Soror Triplet, her immediate
predecessor, came to the presidency
with the experience of many years in
the service of the DELTA SIGMA THETA.
Soror Marsh's first national office
in 1921 shortly after Kappa Chapter
at University of California had been
established. Later she served first
as Second Vice-President, then as
First Vice-President, Far West Regional
Director, and more recently as
Chairman of National Program Committee.

In expressing her deep appreciation
for the distinction conferred
upon her by their electing her to the
president's office, Soror Marsh pledged
herself to the task of helping 
DELTA SIGMA THETA build skyward by far
vision and adequate perspectives.

Photo of 
Soror Vivian O. Marsh

Continued support being pledged
to other groups carrying on programs
for the .social, economic, educational, health, and political welfare
of the nation's minority Group,DELTA SIGMA THETA contributed fifty
dollars each year to the N. A. A. C. P. independently of memberships
urged and secured in the local branches of the organization; twenty-
five dollars per year was voted and contributed to the National Urban
League Budget.

The Grand President accepted the invitation to work on the Advisory
Committee for the Fifth  Vocational Opportunity campaign of
the Urban League.

Together with other Greek letter orga nizations DELTA SIGMA THETA
SORORITY joined Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, by invitation, to help
work out a feasible cooperative health program. Soror Anna Johnson
Julian represented DELTA SIGMA THETA in the project.

The National Negro Congress requested representation from the
Delta Sigma Theta in its deliberations. Soror Estelle McNeal of
Chicago was appointed to attend the first meeting of the Congress.
There were great hopes for this type of organization. How well it
will succeed in carrying out its extensive program is left for the
future to tell, but to date Delta is not actively participating in
its program, but it is deeply and definitely interested in the good
work it seems to be accomplishing.

Soror Marsh, after the Cleveland Conve ntion had adjourned,
spent most of the months of January and February, 1938, in Washington,
D. C. served as a lobbyist in the wage against the Anti-lynch Bill

[*47*]

and other unfair practices. DELTA SIGMA THETA received much favorable
publicity through this unusual display of volunteer cooperation
in the fight for human rights under the constitution of the United
States.

On her return trip to California, she toured the states in which
there were chapters of DELTA SIGMA THETA and visited every chapter
that was convenient to reach while she was in their respective sections.
The hope and plan of the early days of having a national officer,
or better, the national president, to visit each chapter in
the country came nearer being realized in these tours of Soror
Marsh's than it has ever been before. True it is, Soror Marsh, living
in California, had the advantage of most of our presidents. She had
the opportunity of visiting some chapters on her way East to the convention
twice, and visiting others once on her way back West. Nevertheless,
the inspection tours were valuable to the organization as
a whole, and inspiring to the individual chapters who had the honor
and privilege of having, for the first time, one of their grand officers
as their guest.

The National Library Project was authorized at the 1937 National
Convention. The plan of the project was to have the Sorority conduct
a circulating, or traveling, library in certain sections of the South
where library facilities are unavailable to Negroes. This plan, to
DELTA SIGMA THETA, seemed to be just another one of the methods that
DELTA SIGMA THETA has advanced to help raise the standards of American
underprivileged youth and to create an atmosphere of refinement and
culture.

Aside from the National Library project, two other major matters
claimed the attention of the Administration. The subject of securing
an Executive Secretary and the problem of financing the office, as 
well as that of purchasing National Headquarters called for detailed
study. Committees were appointed who investigated and planned for
these allimportant phases of the program in their minutest details.
The reports on them given at the 1939 convention were at least
encouraging.

However, the progress of these steps toward modern efficiency
and service is not a matter of history, but it is entirely dependent
upon the financial security of the organization in the future.

A revision of the Sorority ritual was authorized by the National
Convention of 1929, and a committee was appointed to work on the revision,
but as that committee was kept too busy on another phase of
its assignment---the revision of the constitution---it never did get
the opportunity to accomplish the work on the Ritual revision. In
1935 Soror Edna Johnson Morris, a soror well versed in the work, was
appointed by the Grant President to serve as chairman of a committee
to revise the old ritual and add appropriate services for occasions
which would be commensurate with the dignity, beauty, responsibilities
and sincerity of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY. In 1937, Soror Morris
submitted the first of this work to the Convention in Cleveland, to
be approved as a first reading. In 1939, the New York Convention
ratified the ritual, thereby providing the membership with a sacred
and meaningful document second only to the constitution in importance
among the publications of the sisterhood.

[*48 *]

Philanthropic interests of the Sorority have been demonstrated
time and again, but specific among the financial gifts during this
administration were those sent to our own Honorary Soror Mary McLeod
Bethune's school which she founded in Daytona, Florida; to Kumari
Paul, an Indian student, whom Soror Anne Brown, who studied in India,
so highly recommended; and to the N. A. A. C. P. for partial payment
on our Life membership taken out therein.

A picture of
Kumari Paul

Photo of
Soror Anne Brown

A photo of
Soror Elizabeth McCree

Two sorors of DELTA SIGMA THETA
have had the privilege of attending
a university in India. They lectured
in many cities and at the
seats of several DELTA chapters, upon
their return to America.

Airplane view of
Bethune-Cookmen College

48 HONORED GUESTS AND HONORS

Noted Speakers were in attendance
at this convention of 1939. They were:

Soror Elsie Austin who was the
speaker on the DELTA DAY program at the
World's Fair; Soror Austin is an attorney
in Washington D. C.

Soror Sadie T. Mossell Alexander,
the first National President of DELTA
SIGMA THETA, who addressed the Public
Meeting on Sunday. She too, is a lawyer,
but from Philadelphia.

Soror Sara Pelham Speaks, young
New York attorney, was a dynamic leader
in parliamentary procedure.

Soror Mary Church Terrell gave the inspirational speeches for the
closed sessions.

The founders present, Soror Myra D. Hemmings, Naomi R. Sewell,
Ethel Cuff, Florence Letcher Toms, Jimmie Bugg Middleton, and Eliza
Shippen were both honored guests and the speakers at the closed formal
Delta Banquet held in one of the most exclusive restaurants near Times
Square in downtown New York.

The awards of the biennium were received as follows: The Achievement,
Chapter Award, the Triplet Cup, to Beta Omicron, Knoxville,
Tennessee; The Regional Achievement Award, the Eastern Region; the
Marsh Award for best Founders' Day program, Alpha Tau, Southern University,
Baton Rouge, Louisiana.

One Thousand Dollars for study abroad to Soror Dorothy Maynor
cele[?????????]

50
After an impressive installation service presided over by
Soror Naomi R. Cherot, convention parliamentarian, and assisted
by Honorary Soror Mary Church Terrell, the new ritualistic
ceremony was used to confer the status of SEVENTH Honorary
Grand President on Soror Vivian O. Marsh.
Those having been elected and installed into office for
the 1939-41 biennial period were: Soror Elsie Austin, brilliant
scholar and attorney, Legal Advisor to the Recorder of Deeds,
Washington D.C., Grand President; Soror Mae T. Wright, re-elected
Vice-president, Baltimore; Soror Edna M. Kinchion, re-elected
Secretary, Fort Worth, Texas; Soror Beatrice Penman, Treasurer,
Kansas City, Kansas; Soror Frances Durden (Griffin), Journalist;
and Soror Edna B. Johnson-Morris, Grand Secretary Emeritus, as
Historian.
The Fifteenth NATIONAL CONVENTION of DELTA SIGMA THETA
SORORITY adjourned to meet in Detroit, Michigan, December 26, 1941.
RECOLLECTIONS
The 1939 Convention recalled to the minds of the Sorors the
National Convention of 1933. Summer time, World's Fair, the
social whirl, never-to be forgotten public meeting addresses,
big business program, and mighty legislation, and finally a
Dynamic Delta ascending the rostrum as our new leader, as a 
Dynamic Delta retired from office!
Were present to see it all -- Five Dynamic Founders -- One
Dynamic Honorary Member -- The Dynamic FIRST PRESIDENT of the
Mother Chapter -- The Dynamic FIRST GRAND PRESIDENT of DELTA
SIGMA THETA NATIONAL SORORITY who gave that Dynamic public meeting
address -- and as they used to call her "that Dynamic Edna".
"Which one?
"What? were there two?"
"Yes, Edna Kinchion and Edna Morris were there."
"Well both of them, I am sure, but somehow I was thinking
of Dynamic Kinchion, who although sleeping 'neath the willow
now, is our dear we can never forget! There was Gwen
Sara Pelham Speaks, Gladys Shepperd, Catherine T. Alexander!
there! Jeroleen Sneed, Ernestine Postles, and Bess Morton!
Naomi Cherot, Anna Julian, Hortense Young, Catherine Scott,
and oh! so many, many Dynamic personalities too numerous to
mention. Yes, Edith Brown! Marian Palmer Capps! Inez Brewer! and
Lois Lowe! Elizabeth Johnson! Hazel Banks and Madeline Robinson!
Dorothy Height, Nellie Bright, Golda Crutcher, Ruth Johnson, Esther
Griffith, Helen Work, Frances Durden, and Vassie Brown. Any more?
Yes, loads! Dynamic Deltas everywhere in New York at the World's
Big Fair --- and Delta too! But after Mary Lou Davis Robertson and
the Vice-president, Mae Tyson Wright (Downs) there's no more space!!!
Gwendolyn Higgenbothem, Margaret [?]

51
In prospectus --- "Keep Delta Dynamic"
The 1939-41biennium promised dynamic action, for in
accepting the grand honor of National President of Delta Sigma
Theta Sorority, the petite and demure but dynamic Soror Elsie
Austin declared that the chief objectives of her administration
would likely center around a re-organization of records and the
system of book-keeping; a completion of the work of the DELTA
HISTORY; to continue the plan of the previous administration in
developing the National Library Project in the Southland; to
bring into realization the hopes of the organization to have an
Executive Secretary and also National Headquarters; a re-dedication
of all sorors to the lofty ideals of our Founders; a 
re-clamation and re-instatement of as many inactive sorors as
will take note of the new program of action, and finally to get
across to the women of the sisterhood the fact that it takes a 
combination of administrative procedures and constructive information
and ideas for programs and activities to make and keep
Delta a significant force for progressive leadership and
cultural advancement.
To the end that work on these objectives might be started
on the road to achievement, the Grand President called a meeting of her official family,
the National Executive Committee, and around a table, some of 
the most constructive thinking that has been done for a long
time was done. This conference was held in June of 1940 in Washington,
D.C.
A now record system for the office of Grand Secretary was
inaugurated; the Grand Treasurer was empowered, pending
constitutional changes at the convention, to receive fees direct
from the chapters as a matter of better business procedure; a
complete book-keeping and filing system was authorized for all
offices, from Grand Chapter President to local Chapter
Custodian.
In addition to the payment of the $1000.00 award to
Soror Maynor, scholarships were awarded to Soror Cynthia A. Bolt,
Magna Cum Laude graduate of Lincoln University Jefferson City,
Missouri, a nd to Soror Zola M. Hayes, a Cum Laude graduate of
Virginia Union. Soror Bolt, a resident of Boston, will use the
award of $500 to do graduate study in the field of Psychiatric
Social Service. Soror Hayes, being the recipient of $500 also,
plans to do graduate study in the field of Sociology at Fisk
University, Nashville, Tennessee.
It was particularly noted that the project of Soror Hayes'
is of great importance to groups incarcerated in awarding
scholarships and otherwise helping Negro girls to obtain a college
education. Her project is based upon a study of scholarship
and work opportunities of Negro girls in selected Southern schools.
Colleges chosen are both State and private. The value of this
study will be measured in the extent to which it brings to light
those conditions under which scholarships are being awarded
today as well as those others by means of which Negro girls
obtain a college education. Delta Sigma Theta welcomes such
a study, and anxiously awaits such an accomplishment from one

of her own end one of the recipients of our "INVESTMENT IN EDUCATION" campaign begun in the early days of the history of DELTA SIGMA THETA under the dynamic personality, Soror Sadie Tanner Mossell Alexander, the first Grand President of Delta.

Yet, the half has not been told ---

The history of DELTA SIGMA THETA as related from 1913 to the present time will go to press are the reports on the thought-provoking "JOB-ANALYSIS" project and other achievements of this administration are heard at the SIXTEENTH NATIONAL CONVENTION of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY which will convene in Detroit, Michigan, December 27, 28, 29, 26, and 30, 1941.

While it is well to promise you, dear reader, that whatever shall soon become history will appear in the next edition, it is altogether fitting that we pause to give tribute to one of the most dynamic figures that we have ever had in Delta --- the late Soror Edna M. Kinchion, Grand Secretary, who passed into the Great beyond on July 30, just five months before our present administration shall have become history.

We view the future with enthusiasm --- "KEEP DELTA DYNAMIC".

IN MEMORIAM

Cut of Soror Kinchion
The Late Soror Edna Marie Kinchion
GRAND SECRETARY, 1935-41

"Weep not for me, for fear that I should know
And sorrow too, that ye should sorrow so."

"And thus, Soror Edna Marie Kinchion, our Grand Secretary since August, 1935 passed peacefully into the Great Beyond on Tuesday, July 29, 1941 at the family home in Belton, Texas.

She crossed the desert... to the vast unknown!  She gave up the earthly right and wrapped her mantle around her to lie down in pleasant dreams.  She had a heart too weak for the driving power of her energy and personality.

Negro womanhood throughout the country bows in humble submission to the will of the Almighty, and looks up through tear-stained eyes to say "Thy Will Be Done".  DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORS are deeply grieved.  They shall miss her, for she was considered by all as one of the most dynamic figures in DELTA... none can replace her on DELTA'S rolls.  Soror Kinchion is no more... Women of DELTA SIGMA THETA, weep!

"But"... said Edna, "Weep not for me, for fear that I should know"... and then she quietly slipped away."

(This is a re-arrangement of the original article carried by the PITTSBURGH COURIER.)

FOR A MORE COMPLETE
HISTORY
OF
DELTA SIGMA THETA

the GRAND HISTORIAN is asking that each delegate have her chapter
answer all questions and submit all information asked for:
---------------------------------------
Send the information
to the person authorized
by this NATIONAL CONVENTION
to continue this project.

You will know before you
leave Detroit.
--------------------------------------

1. Are your chapter records complete?(Dating from the establishment
until now.)

2. Does your chapter own a file adequate for filing from year to
year--at least for two years, an active files--and a storage file
case for periods further back?

3. If not, what is the method observed in  your chapter for preserving
official correspondence and records?

4. If so, please supply the following information:
      How many charter members were there in your chapter? .........
      How many persons have be initiated in your chapter?
      What are the names of all the sorors who have passed away,
    (1) while an active member of your chapter........
    (2) while an inactive member, but in locality.......
    (3) while inactive, but out of town--where-- ......
    (4) sorors who were in the vicinity of your chapter, but did
    not belong to your chapter. To what chapter?

Give the dates of their deaths, if you can.

If records are not available, please give as complete
information as you can from your own recollection.

Our history,---tho private, if not the public release SHOULD
contain the names of every deceased soror, as well as the office
of Secretary should possess the record of our living sorors.

The historian should know the approximate number of DELTA SIGMA
THETA SORORS in the Sorority--how many ever initiated--and
how many have departed this Life--how many are active-- how many
are inactive and non-participating in the program of Delta.
WILL YOUR CHAPTER HELP WITH INFORMATION? THANK YOU.

53 HONORARY MEMBERS

One of the most dynamic
spirits in DELTA SIGMA THETA
SORORITY is Soror Mary Church
Terrell.
She has brought honor to
her race, to her sex, and to
her SORORITY.
Her never pausing helpfulness
to the evolution of
both her race and sex is
invaluable.
In 1884 Soror Terrell
received the degree of A.B.
from Oberlin College, and in
1888 she received her A.M.
degree from the same college.
She spent three years in E
Europe, studying in France,
Switzerland, and Italy.
She has taught at Wilberforce
University, and in
the Washington, D.C. schools.
Soror Terrell was the
first Negro woman ever to
serve on an American Board
od Education. When she resigned,
she had served eleven
years, longer than anybody
else had functioned as a member of the board in Washington, D.C.,
up to that time. At the great Quinquennial International Congress
of Women in Berlin, Germany, some years ago, Mrs. Terrell achieved
the distinction of being the only delegate to deliver her address
in three languages---English, French, and German.
Soror Terrell has written for some of the best magazines both
in the United States and England, such as the North American Review,
and has contributed to some of the leading newspapers of
the country, such as the Boston Transcript, the Washington Post,
the Chicago Tribune, a nd many others.
Soror Terrell was the first president of the National
Association for Colored Women, and served three terms. She was
also the first woman elected to the presidency of the Bethel
Literary and Historical Society. She was one of the charter
members of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People.
Soror Terrell has served the race and championed its cause
so much and so often that DELTA SIGMA THETA is justly proud to
claim her as one of its most DYNAMIC DELTAS. For her sorority,
Soror Terrell wrote THE DELTA OATH. Keeping before them the
lofty aims embodied in that creed, the members strive more 
earnestly to reach the goal.

HONORARY MEMBERS 

of 

DELTA SIGMA THETA

Soror Florence C.T.McCleave

Florence Cole McCleave
prima donna soprano, is recognized
as the greatest operatic
soprano the Negro race has produced.
Her artistic success in
Europe,occurred when she sang
the title role of "Aida" on tour
in Southern Italy.
Soror McCleave's success
was not only due to her perfectly
schooled and naturally
ravishing voice, for her
intellect and histrionic ability
match her musical attainments.
Soror Florence comes from
a family of musicians. Her
mother was well advanced in
the art of singing at the time
that her daughter was born. At
the age of four, Florence showed
precosity.
Following her college education
at the University of
Southern California, she entered
the Chicago Musical College,
graduating from there in 1916
with first honors---the DIAMOND
MEDAL.
She has traveled extensively
with concert companies, and 
has given recitals in all
leading cities and colleges
in the United States. She
studied grand opera abroad.
Soror Talbert-McCleave composed
the music for the National
Hymn of DELTA SIGMA THETA, and
has been a DYNAMIC DELTA since 1921.

Soror Alice Dunbar Nelson

Alice Dunbar Nelson,
noted sociologist and author,
was born in New Orleans,
Louisiana. She taught
school in New Orleans and
in New York until she was
married to the late poet
laureate, Paul Lawrence 
Dunbar, of Dayton, Ohio.
She also taught in
Wilmington, Delaware, where
she was married to Mr. Robert
John Nelson in 1916.
For years before her
death in 1935 she was engaged
in social work in institutions
for girls. Besides
her work as Parole and Probation
Officer, Soror Nelson
found time to write, being
a contributor to many periodicals
and newspapers in the 
field of short stories and essays.
She was active in club
work, political, and religious
organizations.
Soror Nelson, too,
was a DYNAMIC DELTA. She
wrote the words to the
National hymn of DELTA SIGMA
THETA. Soror Nelson was a
speaker of rare ability, and
was admitted as Honorary
member in Gamma Chapter
in 1919 where Soror Alice was
almost indispensable.


55
HONORARY MEMBERS

Soror Nannie H. Burroughs
Born in Orange, Virginia,
the young child, who in later
years became one of the most
dynamic figures in Negro education,
was christened Nannie
Helen.
When she was five years
old, her mother went to Washington,
D.C., where she worked
and kept Nannie in school until
she graduated with honor from
high school. Nannie took a 
thorough business course, and
a special course in domestic
science.
Out of the suffering of
a disappointment that came
about when someone else, who
apparently had "pull", was
given the position that had
been virtually promised her,
came the idea --- that come day
she was going to establish a
school that politics had not
nothing to do with, and one
that would give all sorts of
girls a fair chance to help
them overcome whatever handicaps
they might have.
She once said, "What's
the sense of talk, if you
don't do something?
Since then Nannie Burroughs
a DYNAMIC SOROR of DELTA SIGMA
THETA has been doing things.
Of her it has been said,
"No other person in America
has so large a hold on the
loyalty and esteem of the
Negro masses as Nannie H. Burroughs.
She is regarded all over the land
as a combination of brains,
courage, and incorruptibleness."

Soror Mary McLeod Bethune
Mary McLeod Bethune is
a woman who fought her way up.
Her life achievements read almost
like a page from a fairy
book.
While teaching at Haines
Institute in Augusta, Georgia,
she had an occasion to visit
Tuskegee. There she met Dr.
Booker T. Washington. Through
him, she became inspired and
became fired with the desire
to build an educational castle
which she would let others
share. It was to be a school
destined to help lead her race
out of darkness and illiteracy.
She was determined, herself,
to become one of the
most famous women of the
world. Bo
Both of her dreams have
come true.
She is the head of the 
famous Bethune-Cookman College
at Daytona, Florida. She is 
Director of Negro Affairs of
the NYA and serves as a member
of the National Advisory Committee
of that agency. She 
was a winner of the Springarn
Nedal of a few years ago. She
is a member of scores of civic,
club, and educational organizations.
She is all that
finer womanhood embodies. She
is truly great --- Mary Bethune
is a DYNAMIC DELTA.
Soror Bethune has been
a Delta Sigma Theta soror
since 1923.
Soror Bethune is an exponent
of interracial good will
and understanding."


56
HONORARY MEMBERS

Soror Hallie Q. Brown
Shortly after Beta
Chapter was organized at
Wilberforce University, Soror
Hallie Quinn Brown was admitted
into the Sorority, as an Honorary
member.
Soror Brown has taken an
active interest in the Sorority,
being particularly an
asset to the Beta and Delta Sigma
Chapters.
As an elocutionist, she
has traveled all over the
United States giving recitals
and as an educator, aside from
teaching at Wilberforce University,
Soror Brown has traveled
extensively in Europe. Emery
Hall, one of the most beautiful
buildings on the Wilberforce
campus, is the result
of her influence among English
philanthropists.
Soror Brown, like Sorors 
Terrell, McLeod Bethune, and
some others, was at one time
president of the National 
Association of Colored Women's
Clubs.
She too, is a DYNAMIC
DELTA, always ready to do
something "for the Deltas"!

Soror Mary Fitzbutler Waring
Louisville, Kentucky is her
birth-place, where for years she
lived.
Soror Waring is a graduate of
National Medical College in 
Louisville, Kentucky, and of the
Chicago Medical School. Her late
husband, Mr. Frank B. Waring,
being a teacher in the schools
of Chicago, she came to Chicago
to live.
Soror Waring, a past president
of the National Association
of Colored Women, is active in
club work, in politics, and in
social service and medical science.
In 1920, she was appointed
Representative of Colored Women
of America and attended International
Council of Women, in
Christiana, Norway.
She has been closely
associated with Lambda chapter,
into which group she was taken
as Honorary member in 1921. Since
that time, she has become an honorary
member of the entire organization.
This soror is a writer as
well as a physician. She is editor
of the WOMAN'S MAGAZINE, an organ
of the N.A.C.W.
Truly Soror Waring is one 
of our DYNAMIC DELTAS.

57 HONORARY MEMBERS
SOROR GABRIELLE PELHAM ...................Washington, D.C......1913

First Honorary member of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY.
----------------------------------
SOROR MARY ELIZABETH CROMWELL...........Washington, D.C.

Graduate of Unviersity of Michigan, A.B.
Graduate of University of Pennsylvania, A.M.
Teacher of Mathematics, Dunbar High School, Washington, D.C.

Interests: Her church, World Pease, and the integration
of the Negro in American life.
----------------------------------
SOROR JESSIE REDMON FAUSET HARRIS.........Montclair, New Jersey...

Graduate of Columbia University, M.A.
Graduate, La Sorbonne, Paris France
Teacher of French Language, New York City High Schools

Interests: Teaching and Writing
Author of "There is Confusion", "Plum Bun",
"Chinaberry Tree", "Noblesse Oblige", and many other
novels, essays, and poems.
----------------------------------
SOROR GERTRUDE DURDEN RUSH................... Des Moines, Iowa....1919

Graduate of Des Moines University, A.B.
Des Moines University Law School, L.L.B.
Only Negro woman practicing attorney in State of Iowa

Interests: Club work(National Association of Colored Women)
Church work (Legal advisor, Woman's Department
of National Baptist Convention)
Law practice in Des Moines, Iowa
----------------------------------
SOROR GERTRUDE WOODARD................Washington, D.C.......1914
(Mrs. Dudley Woodard)
----------------------------------
SOROR SADIE OVERTON DAVIS(Mrs. B.O. Davis)
...............Washington, D.C...........1914
.........................
Graduate of the University of Chicago, Ph.B.
Graduate of Ohio State University, M.A.
Former teacher at Clark University, Wilberforce University,
and in Lincoln High School in Kansas City.
...
Interests: Her church, her home, and "her general".
----------------------------------
SOROR JULIA GEE....................Xenia, Ohio.................1914

Graduate Wilberforce University, A.B.
Graduate Ohio State University, M.A.
Retired teacher--Wilberforce University
----------------------------------
SOROR CORALIE COOK................Washington, D.C........1915

Graduate of Storer College and Shoemaker School of Oratory
Professor of Oratory at Howard University

HONORARY MEMBERS
SOROR LAURA GLENN.............Washington, D.C...............
----------------------------------
SOROR GERALDINE GREEN............Washington, D.C............
----------------------------------
SOROR ESTELLE PINCKNEY.........................Washington, D.C.
----------------------------------
SOROR GEORGIA COOK.............Washington, D.C.
----------------------------------

HONORARY SORORS
who have passed onto
OMEGA-OMEGA

SOROR MARGARET MURRAY WASHINGTON,    Tuskegee, Alabama
(widow of BOOKER T. WASHINGTON)........1925
SOROR ALICE DUNBAR NELSON           Wilmington, Del.
(widow of PAUL LAWRENCE DUNBAR).......1935
SOROR ELNORA SCOTT              Washington, D.C.
(wife of DR. EMMETT J. SCOTT) ........1937
SOROR CECELIA GREGG                     Kansas City,
(wife of BISHOP JOHN A. GREGG, and            Kan.
foster mother of Soror Naomi R. Cherot,
former Grand Vice-President)...1941

SOROR SARAH SCARBOROUGH                 Wilberforce, Ohio
(widow of DR. WILLIAM S. SCARBOROUGH)

SOROR MALVINIA MITCHELL........................Cleveland, Ohio 19__
(widow of DR. SAMUEL MITCHELL)

SOROR FRANKIE TALBERT              Detroit, Michigan
(widow of DR. HORACE TALBERT).......... 1932
_______________________________________________________
c
GRAND OFFICERS who have passed on to
OMEGA-OMEGA

Died while in office
Soror Edna M. Kinchion--Grand Secretary (1935-41)
Belton and Fort Worth, Texas

Died as a Past Grand Officer

Soror Pearl Ballard, Grand Chaplain (1924)
Louisville, Kentucky

59
History of the Negro race reveals that among the FIRST
AMERICANS are the following DYNAMIC DELTA SORORS:
SOROR SADIE T. MOSSELL ALEXANDER
First Negro woman to receive a Ph.D. degree. (There
were three Negro women to receive this degree during the same
month and the same year. The date of Soror Alexander's commencement
was responsible for giving this distinction to her.
First Negro woman to serve the city of Philadelphia
as Assistant Corporation Counsel.
First Negro woman to receive the special distinction
of being chosen editor of the Law Magazine at the University
of Pennsylvania.
First Acting Actuary among Negro women in an outstanding
Life Insurance Company.
First National President of DELTA SIGMA THETA.
SOROR MARY CHURCH TERRELL
First Negro woman to serve on a large city Board of
Education.
First Negro (and only) Negro woman chosen to represent
the United States Congress of Women and address the large
gathering in three languages.
First president of the National Association of 
Colored Women.
First Negro woman who name is inscribed on the 
roll of Oberlin's most famous alumni and alumnae.
First Negro woman to write more than a half-dozen
highly praised books to be placed on the market.
SOROR ELSIE AUSTIN
First Negro woman to graduate from the University
of Cincinnati Law School (Many other "first" accomplishments)
Space does not permit in this trial issue.
SOROR LUCY OXLEY
First and only Negro woman to finish from the
school  of Medicine at the University of Cincinnati.
SOROR CONSTANCE HESLIP
First Negro to be named instructor at Toledo University.
SOROR MYRA D. HEMMINGS -- Only person to be president of both AKA and
Delta Sorority.
(This is only a "manuscript sample" of the pages to be
set aside for this type of information.)

60
OUTSTANDING DELTA WOMEN
IN THEIR
SPECIAL FIELDS
The trial copy will have some such persons
already written up, but the page or pages will
be open through convention time for other suggestions,
provided the manuscript is approved
for publication.

Music and Fine Arts
Dorothy Maynor
Johanna Gow Bush
Gwendolyn Bennett
Inez Brewer
Josephine Harreld
F. Ailene Marks
Ethel Ramos Harris
Lorenza Jordan
Eleanor Morris
Law
Sadie Tanner M. Alexander
Elsie Austin
Gertrude Durden Rush
Sara Pelham Speaks
Government and Agencies
Mary M. Bethune
Vivian O. Marsh
Jennie Baer Shief

Medicine
Lucy Oxley
Helen Rhetta
Helen Dickens
Virginia Alexander
Hilda Bolden
Mae Chinn
Mary Waring
Leah Griffin
Social Work
Thelma Marshall
Mary R. Smith
Evangelism
Ida May Myller
Veola C. Brown

Literature
Jessie Fauset
Beatrice Morton
Grace Coleman
Journalism
Julia Bumbry
Jones
Fay Jackson
Scientists:
Gwendolyn Lee
Clover Oliver
Deans of Women
and Counsellors
Hilda Davis
Jeannette Triplet
Mildred Dobson
(MANY MORE FIELDS and MANY MORE NAMES)

INTERESTING DELTAS

(ABOUT TWO OR THREE PAGES--when book is authorized to be printed, Historian did not type these out on trial copy because it will be "straight copy" from Journal, pamphlets, or articles sent by chapters.)



STATISTICS OF
DELTA SIGMA THETA
I. AREAS COVERED BY THE SORORITY
1. Regions
(a) East
States included            Chapters within Region
Massachusetts*           Iota
New York                     Alpha Sigma
                                    Rho
New Jersey                  Kappa Sigma
Pennsylvania               Gamma
                                    Xi Sigma
Maryland                    Epsilon Sigma
                                   Alpha Gamma
Virginia    **                Mu Sigma
                                   Alpha Mu Sigma
                                   Beta Epsilon
                                   Beta Kappa
North Carolina           Alpha Lambda
                                   Alpha Mu
                                   Alpha Rho
                                   Alpha Nu Sigma
                                   Alpha Phi Sigma
District of
Columbia                   Alpha
                                  Beta Sigma
                                  Beta Iota
*Massachusetts         Alpha Omicron Sigma
**Virginia                  Alpha Theta Sigma
The same for each region

II. MEMBERSHIP                   Method of acquiring or losing members
Chapter
Present membership
Initiated
Trans-ferred
Inactive
Died

III. Totals

IV. FINANCIAL CONDITION OF SORORITY
(Cite finding of one audit report which is
typical--and appropriate for public reading.)

65
STATISTICS
V. SORORITY PROJECTS
   1. National
      a. Scholarship Awards
      b. Scholarship Loans
      c. Philanthropic Aid
         1-c. N.A.A.C.P.
         2-c. Association for Study of Negro Life and H.
         3-c. Bethune-Cookman College
      d. National Bookmobile (Library)
      e. Job Analysis--Work Opportunities, A Study
   2. Local
      Day Nursery.......Toledo, Ohio
      Dental Clinic......Charleston, West Viriginia
      Charm School...Sigma Chapter, Atlanta, Georgia
      Equipped a Baby Room in Hospital----Gary, Indiana
      Supplying clothes and food, periodic
         check up on special needs
         of children in Nursery School...Alpha Xi
      Huge Christmas Party annually for
         small children in New York City...Alpha Sigma
      Camp Delta--for underprivileged children
         of Fort Worth.....Beta Rho
      Junior Counselor Plan.......Lambda, Chicago
      Public Address system being purchased
         for local school......Alpha Alpha
      Furnished a room in Infirmary......Kappa in Calif.
      Make clothes annually to be given
         through agency at University of
         California......Pi
      "Adopted a daughter"enabling her to attend
         school......Theta Sigma
      Furnishing a room in new YWCA......Beta Zeta Sigma
      Girl Scout Troop-Music Hour each Sunday afternoon
         at Veterans' Facility for the
         disabled veterans......Alpha Mu
         Sigma
      Local library project--Rag dolls for children..
         ....Eta Sigma
      Provides Library with books about and by Negroes..
         .....Beta Delta
      Major stage productions annually......Beta Gamma
      Financial pledges to hospitals and sanitariums..
         ....Omicron Sigma
      Christmas baskets to needy......Alpha Rho Sigma
      Charm School......Alpha Tau
      Civic projects (Christmas Tree, Baby Clinic, a
         "six-way drive"--library facilities to the
         sick and needy......Alpha Epsilon
         Sigma
      Baby Contest......Alpha Delta
      Entertaining children of indigents at Christmas,
         giving them the "niceties"......Alpha Gamma Sigma
(SPACE WILL NOT PERMIT further enumeration of projects in this
manuscript issue--but those and more will be information for the
public to consider DELTA HISTORY and see our "raison d'etre".)

INDEX
(No trial arrangement is
submitted. If and
when the MANUSCRIPT is
ordered published, the
index will be arranged.)
-----It is obvious that the work
involved makes it almost
prohibitive for this trial
copy.l------

HISTORY OF PSI SIGMA CHAPTER

Psi Sigma Chapter is located picturesque, historic San Antonio, Texas. The chapter was established August 16, 1933 by Soror Mary Lou Davis--Roberson who was at that time Regional Director of the Southwest Region. Sorors Anna Johnson, Edna Kinchion , Gladys Shepherd, and Edna Johnson--Morris did their official duties in making possible the establishing of this chapter.
The sorors who filled the petition were: Sorors Vessie Hill Brown, Beta Chapter: Arlyne B. Wyatt, Sigma Sigma chapter; Inez Bumbrey, Alpha Kappa Chapter; Myra D. Hemmings, Alpha chapter.
Those who were initiated on the night of August 16 were Bella Holley Cameron, Irene Trulove Holley, Lillian Thompson, Bernice Whitfield, and Silicia W. Weston.
The officers elected August 16, 1933 were:
Myra Davis Hemmings, President
Arlyne B. Wyatt, Vice President
Bernice Whitfield, Recording Secretary
Silicia W. Weston, Treasurer
Vessie H. Brown, Corresponding Secretary
Rut Bellinger, Journalist
Inez Bumbrey, Sargeant-at-arms.

Later the following additions to the chapter were made:
Zerita Stepteau--Mitchell
Martha Branch-Hunter
Artemisia Bowden
Carolyn Carruthers
Alma Oakes
Rosamund J. Benson
Mary Preachers
Helena Newby
Agnes Plummer-Ratliff
Addie Washington-Sampson
Alma K. Inge
Ludelle Routt-Bailey
Irene T. Holley, Jr.
Sorors Carruthers, Oakes, Mitchess, Hunter, Newby, and Whitfield have moved other climes.
During 1939-1941 Sorors Minnie Bowden Cesar, Lucille Norris, Mamie Smith, and Ethel Louise Smith identified themselves with Psi Sigma. 
The chapter features annually a stage production. "The Donovan Affair," "The Ninth Affair," "Dtacula", "The Night of January 16," and "Death Takes a Holiday" are among the plays that have been produced under the direction of Soror Hemmings.
The chapter maintains a Scholarship--loan funds. Loans amounting to four hundred ($400) dollars have been made during the past six years.
At the local Negro senior high school, the Chapter has Delta Shelves in the library to which books are added during May Week.

In the line of charity the chapter shares the sponsorship 
of the Local W. P. A. Nursery school. 

The chapter was hostess to the Southwestern Regional 
Conference in December 1939.

To soror Rosamund J. Benson goes the honor of having 
composed the chapter song---"Psi Sigma".

Social functions run to the usual type teas, house 
parties, soirees, and formal dances.

Present officers are:

President--Arlyne B. Wyatt
Vice Pres.-Silicia W. Weston
Recording Sec.--Ethel Louise Smith
Treasurer-------Irene T. Holley
Journalist------Irene T. Holley
Sargeant-at-arms-Rosamund J. Benson
Parliamentarian--Bella H. Cameron

Soror Myra Davis Hemmings (a found and first president 
of Alpha Chapter) is Regional Director of the Southwestern 
Region.

HISTORY OF THE ETA SIGMA
CHAPTER
OF
DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY

Eta Sigma chapter of Delta Sigma Theta was set up on 
April 9, 1938 with Soror Edna Kinchion conducting the ceremony. 
The following persons were chapter members:
Maxino Randolph-Gayles, Alpha Beta
Rhoda Gooden-Irving, Omicron Sigma
Saretta Slaughter-Finley, Alpha Beta
Buzedor Flack-Ragland, Alpha Alpha Sigma
Fannie Gibson-Miller, Beta
Theresia Bolden-Moore, Beta Zeta
Carmelita Weaver-Tipton, Psi
Edwyna Randallis-Wilson, Pi Sigma

Although Oklahoma City was the chapter seat, the members of 
the chapter included residents of Guthrie, and Langston thus 
the chapter activities serve fifty mile area. 

As are all chapters, Eta Sigma was anxious to take unto itself 
new members. In accordance with this desire Eta Sigma had Beta 
Epsilon at Langston University initiate for the chapter Allie 
D. Randolph, Allison Berry and Doxey Hawes. These worthy sorors 
fell to work at once with the original group and the activities 
of Eta Eigma were increased to include donations of scrapboods made by 
the members for the children of the daynursery of Oklahoma City.

About this time came more new members to the chapter---this
timeb transfer:

Ola Tatum from Beta Upsilon
Helen Hewlett from Beta Upsilon
Vivan Cameron from Omicron Sigma
Elizabeth Walcott Gordon from Alpha Zeta
Marnesba Davis Hill from Beta Epsilon
Dorothy Penman-Harrison from Epsilon.

These additions to the chapter roster fell to work and helped
to make the annual Scholarship Bridge a success. Other activities
during this year (1939-40) included the only 100% support
of the National Library project of any chapter. Of the $40.00
raised for this purpose Eta Sigma sent in $15.00. In addition
to this support of the National Library project, the chapter
supported a library project of its own in that more than 20
books were presented to the Oklahoma City library during the
course of the Negro History Week Exhibit sponsored by this
chapter. At this meeting hold in the library Soror Camerson
and Professor Raleigh Wilson spoke---"Some Contributions of 
Negroes to the Nation."

Each year since the chapter has been set up the Sorors have
given themselves a Christmas party to which they have invited
their husbands and special friends. During the year many 
other social courtesies have been extended visiting sorors.

May Week 1941 was celebrated by having a Mother-Daughter Vesper
at which Soror Edna Kinchion was the guest speaker. The Avery
Chapel choir accompanied by Soror Finley presented Mother's
Day Music.

The list of the latest recruits includes the names of Sorors
Bettye Beaver -- Beta Upsilon
Ruth Ford-Norton -- Beta
Naomi Milow - Beta Upsilon
Nellie B. Williams - Beta Upsilon
Alberta Young-Slaughter -- Alpha Iota

Sorors Camille Sanford and Doris Trotman have also expressed
their intention of transferring to Eta Sigma.
Thus the effort on the part of the chapter to draw back into
the fold "floating sorors" has met some success.

1941-42 will be another full year for Eta Sigma: The second
annual Negro History Week Poster contest for high school students
will take place in February. The youthful artists who
won last year are anxious to keep the prize Plaque in their
possession.

Another outstanding May Week program is on the calendar -- and
another fifty follar scholarship for a ranking school high 
school graduate.

The Central Regional Conference is to be entertained by Eta
Sigma in Oklahoma City.

A Christmas idea for this year is being taken seriously be
Eta Sigma --- "hand made" rag dolls of all nations for the kiddies
in the day nursery!

Speaking of Christmas brings but one idea to Eta Sigma ---
the Grank Convention in Detroit ----- all attention is being
centered toward Detroit.

Brief History of Alpha Gamma Sigma Chapter
of
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority

Alpha Gamma Sigma Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority was
founded in Memphis, Tenn. in the Fall of 1934, under the administration
of Soror Jeannette T. Jones as Grand President and Soror
Sue Cowan Morris as Regional Director. There were 5 charter
members; namely Sorors Cecilia Irwin of Fiske, Wilona Nicholson
of Fiske, Radie Broome of Howard, Juanita Perkins Brinkley of
Clark, and Hilda Carter Smith of Wilberforce. We were and still
are especially privileged to have living in our midst one of our
Honorary Members in the person of Madam Florence Cole McCleave.

Our first effort was to represent at the Regional Conference
which met that same Fall, after which we increased our membership
with seven LeMoyne graduates. It fell our lot to entertain the
next Regional which we did very successfully even tho' we were
still in our infancy with the cooperation of other Greek letter
organizations already established.

Our presence in the city being known, we began to be called
upon for various drives which we helped and have continued to do
so. Tagging for the Boy Scouts was an annual project for several
years until they discontinued tag days. Now, we contribute to
their support annually along with contributions to the Milk Fund,
the N.A.A.C.P., beartification of the Old Peoples' Home, and 
the Elks Christmas Fund. During this time, we managed to be represented
at most of the National Conventions and Regional Conferences,
also celebrate Founders' Day and May Week.

Our membership gradually increased with LeMoyne graduates
until, in the Fall of 1937 we attempted our first annual Jabberwock
that we might begin giving a scholarship. Socially and
financially they have been successful each year enabling us to
give two $79.00 scholarships-one for each High School here-to
LeMoune amounting to a total of $158.00. During the year 1940-
1941 we raised our scholarship by personal donations from the
sorors thus enabling Alpha Upsilon Chapter of LeMoyne to take the
initiative in sponsoring the Jabberwock.

Founders' Day is celebrated among ourselves with a social
inspirational meeting at which time we reviewed the founding
and histor of Delta and the achievements of its Founders and
noteworthy Sorors. Greetings are usually sent to all Founders
whose addresses are available.

During May Week we selected our scholarship winners, competitive
exams being the method used in the past. Visiting the five
hospitals in the city carrying magazines and flowers and rendering
short programs where permissible has been a feature of our
May Week celebration for a number of years, climaxed by a public
meeting on Sunday afternoon at which time we have presented
various out-of-town Sorors as guest speakers along with other
local Delta talent. Presentation of the scholarship winners is
also a feature of this program.

Last year 1940, we undertook another local annual projection the form of entertaining children of parents on relief with a Christmas Party on Christmas morning. The Community Welfare League furnished us with the names of fifty-three children to whom we gave toys, story books, candy, frit and nuts. The tree and all gifts, fruit, etc. were donated by Sorors, Patrons and Friends. Various Sorors led the children in singing carols, playing games and telling Christmas stories. 

 In March 1941, we contributed our quota to the National Library Fund. 

This year, November 1941, we haved pledged $100.00 to the building program at Lemoyne College. 

 From time to, time, we have helped other Greek Letter Organizations by buying and helping to sell tickets for them. This we also do for one of the large while charitable organizations here some of whose members help us regularly in our scholarship efforts. At different times, we have entertained the Alpha Kapa Alpha sorority, the Zeta Phi Betas and Kappa Alpha Psis with luncheons on the occasion of their Regional Conferences, the latter two being last April 1941. 

Also in April 1941, we won first prize playing a game at the sigma Gamma Rho Kiddie Party and also two prizes for costumes at the same affair. 

It is our determination this year to make Delta more " Dynamic " than ever in Memphis. 




HISTORY OF BETA PI CHAPTER 


The curtains of crimson and cream opened to chapter sororos Hazel Hughes , Emma Hill, Isabelle Wilson, Emma King, Iona Hurt, Bernice Martin, Sadye Robinson, Leota Brooks, Queen Ester Ray, Dorothy Pettigrew Wright , Mike Mitchell, Mollie Jackson, Florence Pace and Amanda Anderson , December 3, 1938. 

These fourteen sorors laid a firm foundation upon which a strong and prosperous chapter have been diligently working for four years.

We attribute a great deal of our success to the excellent cooperation , support, and sisterly feeling given us by the graduate chapter, Alpha Epsilon Sigma. From this cooperation we  have sponsored, in conjunction , our national " Jabberwock" programs and " May Week " programs very successfully. 

Beta Pi maintains excellent scholastic standing as well as social popularity on the campus of Bluefield State Teachers College. One of our sorors, Arvella Toles, has been chosen by merit as " Academic Queen " of the college, the highest scholastic standing that can be held on the campus. One of our projects is the awarding of a semester scholarship covering the tuition fee to the highest ranking freshman girl seeking a four year college degree. We take pride to say that four of the five recepients have seen the light of Delta. 

From the above mentioned charter sorors, five have graduated and gained positions as teachers, six are worthy home builders, and three have graduated and still have hopes for the future. 

The present members of our chapters are , Florence E Long, President, Georgia L. Long, Vice- President, Arvella Toles, Secretary, Bernice Martin, Treasurer, Helen W. Pettigrew and Alice Perdue. Graduation has taken toll of most of our members. We are at the present about to show the beam of beams to five barbarians.




HISTORY OF ALPHA EPSILON SIGMA CHAPTER
Alpha Epsilon Sigma Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority
was established in Bluefield, West Virginia, February 7, 1936,
by soror Ruth Alston Hubbard, then Mid-Western Regional Director.
There were seven charter members, namely,
Gwendolyn Hughes Higginbothan-------President
Edna Clouden Wells----------------------Vice-President
Alma J. Hendricks------------------------Secretary
C. Altha Allen----------------------------Treasurer
Other members were Lillian W. Jordan, Doris Moten Holley and
Othello Harris Jefferson.
In the southern end of West Virginia sororities were comparatively
unknown. It was the purpose of these seven women to
so indelibly impress the ideals of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority
that it would always hold the lofty spot it so richly deserves.
They set about laying a firm foundation, guided by the program
of the general organization.
One of the happiest moments in the life of our chapter was
the establishment of Beta Pi, the undergraduate chapter at Bluefield
State Teachers College. There had been many girls who
had willing remained T.I.D. then Pyramids and waited to be
SELTA of nothing. The sisterhood between these two chapters is
one to be proud of.
The "Jabberwock" is a feature attraction in the life of
Bluefield. We have a large active Patrons' Board and an annual
patrons' reception. The scholarships established by the
graduate chapter is now being carried on by Beta Pi, while we donate
to civic projects, namely, the Christmas Tree, the Baby 
Clinic, the six-way drive and the school libraries, purchasing
books for indigent and other worth-while needy causes.
Our past "May Week" was significant in that we presented
to Bluefield at our Sunday morning church service-the quintessence
of education, loveliness, womanhood and DELTA-our
own President, Elsie Austin.
Friday at the "Jabberwock" we featured glamorous Mrs. Joe
Louis.
Since its establishment, Alpha Epsilon Sigma chapter has 
had delegate and alternate at every convention and regional.
And. with Deta Pi, we look forward with the greatest enthusiasm
to the entertaining of the Mid-western Regional in the spring.
Our present membership consist of the following:
Lucille Drewery, Sadye Robinson, Virginia C. Herbert, Bernice
Palmer, Altha Allen, Gwendolyn H. Higginbotham, Lucille Zachery,
Mollie Williams, Anna Bland, Lillian Allen, Georgia Reed,
Mary Parker, Beatrice Crider, Rosa B. Kirtley, Alma Hendricks,
Ellsworth Calfee, Hazel Calfee, Amanda Anderson, Ewauh White,
Ollie Lomax, Emma Hill, Iona Hurt, and Ruth Murray.

HISTORY OF BETA LAMBDA CHAPTER
DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY - TOLEDO, OHIO
The fact that Toledo had some people who were Delta material
was recognized by Tau Chapter in Detroit as early as 1926
when Ella P. Stewart and Mayola Senior were initiated into
the Detroit chapter. Later, Mayme Duffy Gibson and her
sister, Lillian Duffy, were also initiated into Tau. However,
it was not until the spring and summer of 1936, after
several more Deltas had moved into the community that any
real effort was made to organize a chapter. Helen Shields
Lightfoot (Epsilon), Louise Milton Burgette (Beta) and
Frances Bruce Wade (Alpha Delta) got together and wrote the
regional director for permission to go ahead with the formation
of a chapter. A Delta unit was established under the
chairmanship of Mayola Senior, with Mayme Duffy Gibson as
secretary, to work on the chapter formation. Meantime, Soror
Lightfoot re-entered Ohio State to work on her M.A., and the
chapter was officially established by Regional Director Ruth
Alston Hubbard, on October 31, 1937 with the following charter
members:
Mayme Duffy Gibson (Tau)          Frances Bruce Wade (Alpha-Delta)
Lillian Duffy (Tau)                         Ella P. Stewart (Tau)
Constance Heslip (Tau)                Louise Milton Burgette (Beta)
Soror Burgette was elected as the first president of Beta
Lambda chapter, Soror Heslip, vice-president; Soror Wade,
secretary; and Soror Stewart, treasurer.
Each year since the inception of the chapter we have given a
Jabberwock to raise a scholarship fund which is given to the
girl attaining the highest scholastic rating from the four
major high schools in the city.
As a result of our first Jabberwock, we awarded a scholarship
to Doroty Stalnaker, honor student at Scott High School. We
initiated Soror Stalnaker into the sisterhood in the fall
of her second year at Toledo University, where she was also on
the honor roll. We have had the pleasure of welcoming another
of the four awardees into the chapter, Ida McCray.
In 1939, the sorority decided to undertake a much needed
community service, the provision of a home for the Nursery
School. The WPA officials, who were paying part of the expenses
for the school, had threatened to withdraw their support unless
more suitable accomodations could be found. The chapter
launched a program to purchase a home for this nursery in the
hope that even if WPA support were withdrawn, the community
would continue to maintain this necessary service.

A mammoth boxing show, with Joe Louis as the guest referee was presented. Mr. Louis was ery gracious in appearing for us without charge and has the undying gratitude of this chapter. Thru this effort, largely handled by a committee of influential white men in the city, we were able to raise over $ 600 which has immediately applied on the purchase of a house, that had been approved by the Board of Education , WPA officials , and the sorority. 

The dwelling was completely renovated and is at present considered one the finest examples of community cooperation in the history of WPA nursey schools, as well as a nicely equipped and well -functioning school . The citizens Committee has just closed a Frienship Rally which netted over $600 for the further maintainence and upkeep of the building. 

To insure the future of the school and as an indication of the good faith of the chapter in purchasing the home, steps are now being considered for incorporating the Advisory Committee and turning the control of the school and the building over to the community. 

In addition to our Nursery School Project, Jabberwocks, May Week celebration we have always had very lovely programs to mark our Founder's Day. 

WE have a group of women who are called Delta AIdes, which included some of the mothers of sorors and other influential women in the community. They are very helpful in advancing any program started by the sorority. 

The members of Beta Lambda are persons of whom Delta can be justly proud. However the limitations of space will not permit us to mention the achievements of all. We, must include in this account a word about two or three. 

Soror Constance Ridley Heslip was one of the shining lights seen by TAu Chapter that initiated her into that chapter only a few months before the establishment of our Beta Lambda. Soror Heslip has no peers in her field of race relations. She is the only Negro woman lecturer on the faculty of a white university in the nation . She is recognized for her incomparable background and knowledge of Negro history and culture, and she is sought after as a public speaker. In order to respond , she divides her time as best she can between school work , community service , interracial activities, which includes work as a member of the National Board of Y.W.C.A. 

Soror Soror Frances Wade was the first Negro supervisor appointed by the NYA in this district. In that position she supervised some 35 to 40 white workers for a period of three years, until she went into the field of public relations where she worked through-out northwestern Ohio in the interest of NYA. 

Soror Virginia Ford, a graduate nurse , was amond the first to be called by the U.S. training camps , Fort Hauchuchua, Ari 
Arizona.

HISTORY OF BETA LAMBDA CHAPTER 

DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY -- TOLEDO, OHIO 

The fact that Toledo has some people who were Delta material was recognized by tau Chapter in Detroit as early as 1926 when Ella P. Stewart and Mayola Senior were initiated into the Detroit chapter. Later, Mayme Duffy Gibson and her sister, Lillian Duffy, were also initiated into TAU. However, it was not until the spring and summer of 1936, after several more Deltas had moved into the community that any real effort was made to organize a chapter. Helen Shields Lightfoot ( Epislon ), Louiso Milton Burgette ( Beta ) and Frances Bruce Wade ( Alpha Delta ) got together and wrote the regional director for permission to go ahead with the formtion [formation] of a chapter. A Delta unit was established under the chairmanship of Mayola Senior , with Mayme Duffy Gibson as secretary, to work on the chapter formation. Meantime, soror Lightfoot re-entered Ohio State to work on her M.A., and the chapter was officially established by Regional Director Ruth Alston Hubbard, on October 31, 1937 with the following charter members: 

Mayme Duffy Gibson ( Tau )         
Lillian Duffy ( Tau ) 
Mayola Senior ( Tau ) 
Constance Heslip ( Tau ) 
Frances Bruce Wade (Alpha - Delta ) 
Ella P. Steward ( Tau ) 
Louise Milton Burgette ( Beta ) 

Soror Burgette was elected as the first president of Beta Lambda chapter, Soror Heslip , vice-president of Beta Lambda chapter , Soror Heslip , vice-president; Soror Wade, secretary ; and Soror Stewart, treasurer. 

Each year since the inception of the chapter we have given a Jabberwock to raise a scholarship fund which is given to the girl attaining the highest scholastic rating from the four major high schools in the city. 

As a result of our first Jabberwock, we awarded a scholarship to Doroty Stalnaker, honor student at Scott High School. We initiated Soror Stalnaker into the sisterhood in the fall of her second year at Toledo University , where she was also on the honor roll. We have had the pleasure of welcoming another of the four awardees into the chapter , Ida McCray. 

In 1939, the sorority decided to undertake a much needed community service , the provision of a home for the Nursery School. The WPA officials , who were paying part of the expenses for the school, had threatened to withdraw their support unless more suitable accomodations could be found. The chapter launched a program to purchase a home for the nursery in the hope that even if WPA support were withdrawn , the community would continue to maintain this very necessary service. 



A mammoth boxing show, with Joe Louis as the guest referee
was presented. Mr. Louis was very gracious in appearing for
us without charge and has had the undying gratitude of this
chapter. Thru this effort, largely handled by a committee
of influential white men in the city, we were able to raise
over $600 which was immediately applied on the purchase of a
house, that had been approved by the Board of Education,
WPA officials, and the sorority.
The dwelling was completely renovated and is at present
considered one of the finest examples of community cooperation
in the history of WPA nursery schools, as well as a nicely
equipped and well-functioning school. The Citizens Committee
has just closed a Friendship Rally which netted over $600
for the further maintenance and upkeep fo the building.
To insure the future of the school and as an indication of the
good faith of the chapter in purchasing the home, steps are
now being considered for incorporating the Advisory Committee
and turning the control of the school and the building over
to the community.
In addition to our Nursery School Project, Jabberwocks, May
Week celebration, we have always had very lovely programs to
mark our Founders' Day.
We have a group of women who are called Delta Aides, which
includes some of the mothers of sorors and other influential
women in the community. They are very helpful in advancing
any program started by the sorority.
The members of Beta Lambda are persons of whom Delta can be
justly proud. However the limitations of space will not permit
us to mention the achievements of all. We, must include
in this account a word about two or three.
Soror Constance Hidley Heslip was one of the shining lights
seen by Tau Chapter that initiated her into that chapter only
a few months before the establishment of our Beta Lambda.
Soror Heslip has no peers in her field of race relations. She
is the only Negro woman lecturer on the faculty of a white
university in the nation. She is recognized for her
incomparable background and knowledge of Negro history and culture,
and she is sought after as a public speaker. In order
to respond, she divides her time as best she can between school
work, community service, interracial activities, which includes
her work as a member of the National Board of the Y.W.C.A.
Soror Soror Frances Wade was the first Negro supervisor appointed
by the NYA in this district. In that position she supervised 
some 35 to 40 white workers for a period of three years,
until she went into the field of public relations where she
worked through-out northwestern Ohio in the interest of NYA.
Soror Virginia Ford, a graduate nurse, was among the first
to be called by the U.S. Office of Public Health to serve as 
a nurse in one of the U.S. training camps, Fort Huachuehua, Ariz
Arizona.

THE FAR WEST
To-day there are eight chapters of DELTA SIGMA THETA
SORORITY in the Far West. They were all organized thru the
efforts and by Soror Vivian Osborne-Marsh. Soror Marsh brought
each group thru many stormy waters into the Delta Chain. She
sacrificed much financially, and physically, even going
against the advice of her physicians to make it possible for
Delta to become a reality in the Far West. These six chapters
listed in the order of their organization are:
KAPPA CHAPTER, Organized Feb. 9, 1921, Wheeler Hall,
     University of California. Formally established in
     September by Soror Ida Miller, assisted by Vivian
     Osborne-Marsh. Chapter seat is Berkeley.
PI CHAPTER, Organized Feb. 1924 at the home of Soror Senola
     Reeves, 1479 E. 23rd, St., Los Angeles by Soror Marsh.
     Chapter seat U.C.L.A.
UPSILON CHAPTER, Organized Feb. 1924 at the home of Soror
     Bugg, Pasadena, California, by Soror Marsh. Chapter
     seat U.S.C.
NU SIGMA CHAPTER, First graduate chapter on the Coast.
     Organized in Los Angeles, California, August 1929.
     Formally established by Soror Miriam Matthews, Regional
     Director.
ALPHA OMICRON CHAPTER, Mixed chapter in Seattle, Washington
     Organized April 1933. Formally established by Soror
     Pauline Slater, Regional Director. Chapter seat is
     University of Washington.
OMEGA SIGMA CHAPTER, Graduate chapter, organized in
     Berkeley, Cal. Formerly established March 30, 1934
     in the home of Soror Marsh by Soror Pauline Slater,
     Regional Director. Kappya Chapter also on this evening
     became an undergraduate chapter in place of a mixed
     chapter.
CHARTER MEMBERS OF THE CHAPTERS
KAPPA: Onilda Taylor, Vivan Osborne, Elizabeth Gordon,
     Louise Thompson. The first initiation was conducted
     in September 1922, by Soror Ida Miller of Penn. Those
     initiated were Onilda Taylor, Vivian Osborne-Marsh,
     Elizabeth Gordon, Louise Thompson, Creola Cook (Deceased)
     Myrtle Price and Gladys Brown.
PI CHAPTER: Ruth Sykes, Miriam Matthews, Marion Carter,
     Alma Green, Marian Robinson.
UPSILON CHAPTER: Juanita Ellsworth, Fay Jackson, Rowena
     Muckleroy, Alma Thomas, Alice Stoard and Portia Broyles.
NU SIGMA CHAPTER: Miriam Matthews, Ellen Garrot, Hebe
     Mack. Juanita Ellsworth, Wertie Weaver (Charter Member
     of Alpha Chapter) Wylma Windsor, Portia Broyles and
     Consuelo Bright.

ALPHA OMICROM CHAPTER: Tessie Miller, Madge Cayton, Idell
     Vertner, Deloris Brooks, Jane Chandler, Bertha Campbell
     and Virginia Gayton.
OMEGA SIGMA CHAPTER: Vivian Osborne-Marsh, Evelyn Ware,
     Muriel Taylor, Grace Hackett, Elenor Watkins, Mae
     Edwards Hill.
OUTSTANDING ACTIVITIES OF THE CHAPTERS
KAPPA:
Awarding of two scholarships during each May Week to
non-Deltas and a pledge; yearly May Week Programmes on 
University Campus; furnishing a room in the new Cowel Infirmary
of the University of California, and also placing in it a
landscape picture in memory of a departed Soror, Marie Lenex;
close co-operation with both National and Regional in sending
delegates and carrying out programmes of both; production
of plays annually; charitable work; membership in Pan hellenic
at the University of California; contribution to and co-operation
with activities of organizations on the University of
California Campus.
PI:
Giving of Christmas baskets to needy; making clothes for
needy to be given thru the agency of the University of California
at Los Angeles; awarding annual scholarships to non
Deltas; Observance of Regional and National programmes;
recitals, scholarship balls; rendezvous-annual activity
presented in the Fall to raise funds.
UPSILON:
Charitable acts; observance of Regional and National
programmes; annual closed Christmas luncheon, and summer
picnic at Beach; annual Christmas tree with exchange of gifts
between Sorors and escorts; Hallowe'en activity.
NU SIGMA:
Recitals, charitable work; participation in civic affairs;
awarding of scholarships to non-Deltas; presentation of
outstanding speakers; observance of Regional and National
programs.
ALPHA OMICRON:
Observance of Regional and National Programmes, Teas,
civic co-operation with churches and clubs; charitable acts;
entertainment of graduates.
OMEGA SIGMA:
A definite programme to attract the public's attention
to the interest of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY in cultural,
civic, political and charitable projects; presentation of
speakers at quarterly dinners; sponsoring of radio broadcasts
relating historical facts on DELTA SIGMA THETA and its
achievements as well as musical programmes; Christmas cheer;
awarding together with Kappa and annual scholarship to a
High School graduate; presentation with kappa of Annual May
Week Plays; decorating the graves of departed Sorors each
Decoration Day together with Kappa Chapter.
BETA THETA*     BETA NU*
NOTE: These sections were taken from a pamphlet issued by the Far
West Region some time ago, before the chapters at San Diego
and in Arizona were established. Hence, no mention of them
was made. However, the Historian wishes to recognize the existence 
of these chapters. She hopes to get response from them in
the future.---The Historian.

History
of
Sigma Sigma Chapter
of 
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority
-Gladys Brewer Milos
One ship drives east, another drives west
While the selfsafe breezes blow;
'Tis the set of the sail and not the gale
That bids them where to go.
Like the winds of the seas are the ways of fate
As we journey along through life;
'Tis the set of the soul that decides the goal
And not the calm or the strife.
R.R. Williams
The success of the establishment of Sigma Sigma Chapter of Delta Sigma
Theta Sorority as a graduate Chapter in the city of Austin, Texas, November
26, 1930 is the result of just such an attitude by the charter members, as is
described in the above poem.
During the years 1926-'27-'28-'29 the campus of our Alma-mater Samuel
Huston College became significantly "Greek-letter" conscious. The
scholarship society formerly known as the "Who-is-Who" was dissolved into the
"Phi Kappa Theta Scholarship Society"' sororities and fraternities of every
name were being contacted by different members of the student body, seeking
the granting of a chapter of those nationally known organizations at our
college. One fraternity and one sorority were set up and the leaders of
many groups were rushing members with tempestuous urges--it was impossible
not be caught in the "gale", especially if your scholarship was of high rank,
for this answered one of the outstanding requirements in all of the
organizations.
A group of us began considering the accomplishments and reading the life
stories of the women of these various organizations. Providently, those
impressed by the women of Delta Sigma Theta got together. We set our "sails"
and our "souls" toward this goal. With Maud Ella Sattiewhite Garrett, then
Maud Ella Sattiewhite, as captain, and Gladys Brewer Miles, nee Gladys
Brewer, as Commander, the journey began. By the end of the year, 1929 we had
not been able to get any recognition because the college was not properly
rated and five of the number wer now graduates, leaving five under-graduates
in attendance at e college. The school authorities were successful in helping
get full recognition and on Nov. 26, 1930, Anna J. Thompson and Edna M.
Kinchion (deceased) initiated into their sisterhood, Sorors Maud Ella
Sattiewhite Garrett, Gladys Brewer Miles, Arlyne Bumbrey Wyatt, Harryet L.
Brown, and Annye Harrison Armstrong into the graduate chapter, Sigma Sigma,
four of the members belonging to Phi Kappa Theta Scholarship Society.
Sorors Marguerite Brewer Harris, Latrelle Plummer De Blanc, Inez Elizabeth
Alexander (deceased) Mozella Warmothe Moore, and Julis Modlock were
initiated into the undergraduate chapter Alpha Kappa. It is impossible to write
the history of one chapter without mentioning the other because their
beginning is mutal and the division circumstantial. The charters were
issued at the time of initiation. Our ship had landed, was christened Sigma
Sigma and was again put out to sea with the cherished responsibility of
carrying as our cargo the aims and ideals of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority. The
first officers were: President-Maud Sattiewhite Garrett, Vice-pres.-
Gladys K. Brewer, Secretary-Annye Bell Harrison, Treasurer-Arlyn Wendolyn

Bumbrey, Sg. at arms-Harryet Lytle Brown.
The first associate members received were sorors Mabel Hodges Echols
and Janet Walker McNealy (Nov. 1932) who became full membership at the
convention in 1933. Soror Jeffrey Plummer Sutton became an associate
member in 1934 but was transferred after full membership to Psi Sigma
Chapter in San Antonio, Texas, to which Soror Arlyne Bumbrey Wyatt had earlier
transferred and of which Soror Wyatt is now president. Soror Christine
Shockles was received in 1940. These compose the original members of
Sigma Sigma Chapter. All other members have been received from Alpha
Kappa and Alpha Psi Chapters.
Since its existence Sigma Sigma Chapter has not had smooth sailing,---
many of the members were employed in other cities and much could not be
accomplished separately. Our crew is now greatly increased in number and the
interest and enthusiasm of "old times" are on the waves belaying the tempest.

HISTORY OF ETA SIGMA
CHAPTER
OF
DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY
Eta Sigma chapter of Delta Sigma Theta was set up on
April 9, 1938 with Soror Edna Kinchion conducting the ceremony.
The following persons were charter members:
     Maxine Randolph-Gayles, Alpha Beta
     Rhoda Gooden-Irving, Omicron Sigma
     Saretta Slaughter-Finley, Alpha Beta
     Buzedor Flack-Ragland, Alpha Alpha Sigma
     Fannie Gibson-Miller, Beta
     Theresia Boldon-Moore, Beta Zeta
     Carmelita Weaver-Tipton, Psi
     Edwyna Randallis-Wilson, Pi Sigma
Although Oklahoma City was the chapter seat, the members of
the chapter included residents of Guthrie, and Langston thus
the chapter activities serve fifty mile area.
As are all chapters, Eta Sigma was anxious to take unto itself
new members. In accordance with this desire Eta Sigma had Beta
Upsilon at Langston University initiate for the chapter Allie
D. Randolph, Allison Berry and Doxey Hawes. These worthy sorors
fell to work at once with the original group and the activities
of Eta Eigma were increased to include donations of Thanksgiving
baskets for needy families donations of scrapbooks made by
the members for the children of the daynursery of Oklahoma City.
About this time came more new members to the chapter---this
timeb transfer:
     Ola Tatum from Beta Upsilon
     Helen Hewlett from Beta Upsilon
     Vivian Cameron from Omicron Sigma
     Elizabeth Walcott Gordon from Alpha Zeta
     Marnesba Davis Hill from Beta Epsilon
     Dorothy Penman-Harrison from Epsilon.
These additions to the chapter roster fell to work and helped
to make the annual Scholarship Bridge a success. Other activities
during this year (1939-40) included the only 100% support
of the National Library project of any chapter. Of the $40.00
raised for this purpose Eta Sigma sent in $15.00. In addition
to this support of the National Library project, the chapter
supported a library project of its own in that more than 20
books were presented to the Oklahoma City library during the
course of the Negro History Week Exhibit sponsored by this
chapter. At this meeting held in the library Soror Camerson
and Professor Raleigh Wilson spoke---"Some Contributions of
Negroes to the Nation."
Each year since the chapter has been set up the Sorors have
given themselves a Christmas party to which they have invited
their husbands and special friends. During the year many
other social courtesies have been extended to visiting sorors.

May Week 1941 was celebrated by having a Mother-Daughter Vesper 
at which Soror Edna Kinchion was the guest speaker. The Avery 
Chapel choir accompanied by Soror Finley presented Mother's 
Day Music.

The list of the latest recruits includes the names of Sorors: 
Bettye Beaver-Beta Upsilon
Ruth Ford-Norton-Beta
Naomi Milow-Beta Upsilon
Nellie B. Williams-Beta Upsilon
Alberta Young-Slaughter-Alpha Iota

Sorors Camille Sanford and Doris Trotman have also expressed
their intention of transferring to Eta Sigma. 
Thus the effort on the part of the chapter to d raw back into 
the fold "floating sorors" has met some success.

1941-1943 will be another full year for Eta Sigma: The second 
annual Negro History Week Poster content for high school students 
will take place in February. The youthful artists who 
won last year are anxious to keep the prize Plaque in their 
possession. 

Another outstanding May Week program is on the calendar--and 
another fifty follar scholarship for a ranking school high 
school graduate.

The Central Regional Conference is to be entertained by Eta 
Sigma in Oklahoma City.

A Christmas idea for this year is being taken seriously by 
Eta Sigma--"hand made" rag dolls of all nations for the kiddies 
in the day nursery. 

Speaking of Christmas brings but one idea to Eta Sigma--- 
the Grank Convention in Detroit-----all attention is being 
centered toward Detroit.

HISTORY OF ALPHA TAU CHAPTER

of

DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY

It was in the spring of 1934 when Soror Ruth Gwendolyn
Smith, who seeing an opportunity for Delta expansion in the
South, was influential in the establishment of Alpha Tau Chapter
on the campus of Southern University. The girls chosen came,
for the most part, from a local sorority which had been organized
by sorority conscious women a few years prior. The group was
pledged in a very impressive pledge service in April 27, 1934.
It was composed of Sadie Mae O'Conner, Rose Lee Quinn, Sophronia
Stanley, Ozelle Marbles, Gladys Ward, Edith Purnell, and Lucille
Johnson.

The permission for initiation did not come until June, 1934.
All persons who could be summoned at that time were on hand to
become the charter members of the organization. The girls initiated
were Sophronia Stanley, Ozelle Marbles, Zolee Marbles,
Edith Purnell, Lucille Johnson, Sadie Mae O'Conner and Rose Leo
Quinn.

All of the girls with the exception of Soror Sophronia
Stanley and Soror Edith Furnell were lost to the sorority because
of graduation in June 1934. The organization could not
function as a chapter, but only as a unit until November 1934
when a special dispensation was granted by Grand Chapter for the
reorganization of Alpha Tau. At this time Hazel Yates; Thelma
Carey, and Gladys Ward joined the group to form an active chapter
of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority. Soror Mary Lou Davis, then of
Shreveport and at that time Regional Director and Vice-President
of Grand Chapter came to help us solve our problems here.

The first officers of Alpha Tau were Soror Sophronia Stanley
President, Soror Hazel Yates, Vice-President, Soror Thelma Carey,
Secretary, and Soror Gladys Ward, Treasurer.

Some of the major activities of the Chapter during the first 
years of its existence were:--A presentation of a scene from
Fannie Hurst(s novel, "Imitation of Life," which was written by
Soror Hazel Yates; the Delta Ten for all freshmen girls given
in the reception room of Clark Hall; first annual May Week, introduced
by Soror Edna Kinchion, who was then Dean of Women at
Langston University and Journalist of Grand Chapter; first delegate
sent to the Southwest Regional Conference at Houston, Texas;
first annual Rose Garden Prom, instigated by Soror Stanley.

Sorors M. W. Wiggins and M. C. Meadors were exceptional
friends to the Chapter in the early days of its existence.

Soror Tommie Lee Pradd was the second elected president of Alpha Tau and remained in office for two years. It was under her administration that the Fourth Southwest Regional Conference met at Southern University, May 8, 9, 10, 1936. The theme of the conference was "Achievement is a Great Movement to Human Intelligence."

Since that time the destiny of Alpha Tau has been successfully guided by six dynamic Deltas.

In the eight year of Alpha Tau's existence, it finds itself with an annual program befitting any dynamic chapter. There is sponsored annually a Delta Charm Week; May Week Celebration; Public Birthday Celebration; Kiddy party for freshmen and new students; and an annual scholarship award of twenty-five dollars (825) to the outstanding freshman woman in scholastic attainments.

Of the persent twenty-two soarers, five are members of Alpha Kappa Mu Honorary Society, with Soror Elizabeth Carter a character member and president of the local chapter. The remaining soarers have ranking scholarship and hold outstanding positions on the campus.

Alpha  Tau has during the eighty years of its existence given to the school eight M1es Southerns, the most recent one being Soror Alice Collum, selected on the basis of charm staunch womanhood, scholarship, and general usefulness to the University.

Soror Frances Mae Johnson, the present president, and the sorors are now making special plans for entertaining in a big way the tenth Southwest Regional Conference, April 24, 25, 26, 1942. Soror Johnson has as her slogan for the Chapter the slogan of all true Deltas---KEEP DELTA DYNAMIC.











BRIEF OUTLINE 
OF 
PHI SIGMA CHAPTER
DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY

I. Date of establishment: May 1931

II. Chapter Members:
Althea Allen
Alice Curtis Forte
Louise Drake
Mary Eubank
Muriel Faweett
Bertha Johnson Washington
Janie Everett Moore

III. Established by:
Soror Gladys Byron Shepherd

IV. Outstanding chapter project:

A dental project initiated in 1937. Through this project, the chapter with the cooperation of city dentists attempts to care for the dental needs of indigent children in the elementary grades of the public schools of Charleston and Institute, West Virginia.

                                             HISTORY OF BETA DELTA CHAPTER

     In 1924 five graduate Delta young women, Marie Starks-Burke, Ruth
Mason-Ward and Frederica Chase-Dodd from Alpha Chapter; Ruby Pollard 
from Beta chapter and Lettie Wickeliffe from Nu Chapter applied for and 
were granted a graduate chapter in Dallas, Eta Beta.

     This small group of women was the first Greek Letter Chapter in Dallas, 
pioneers in awakening the community to the knowledge of Greek Letter organizations.
The Grand Chapter Program was observed each year by public programs
and social affairs. Through the sale of tags and rummage, funds were
raised and prizes given the highest ranking girl in the senior classes. 
The members were quite active in the social and civic life of the community 
and held important offices in affiliated State bodies.

     After working faithfully and effectively for four or five years, the 
deaths of Ruth Mason-Ward, Julia Caldwell Frazier, who had been made honorary member and the change of residence of Lettie Wickecliffe caused the 
chapter to become inactive. 

     There was a close relationship among the group but they remained inactive
as a chapter until 1935 when there was a few more Delta graduates 
in the city. Under Soror Edna Kinchin, a reorganization was perfected
which included Sorors Burke, Dodd and Pollard of the former chapter, Sorors 
Kaleta Jefferson, Rowena Wilkins from Beta Chapter; Soror Leatrice Porter 
from Alpha Beta Chapter and Soror Lillian Thompson from Psi Sigma chapter. 

     During its first year Rezolia Thrash, who had been pledged at Beta 
Chapter, Dessie Pearl Overton, Doris Tipps and Loyce Willis, associate
members were added. 

     This group became active and observed with outstanding and unique programs
May Week and Founder's Day. Scholarships were awarded to the highest
ranking girl of the Senior class; Books were placed in the school library. 
Substantial contributions as well as personal service were given to civic 
organizations. Our first Jabberwock was heralded as the most outstanding
affair Dallas had witnessed. A Spring Dance followed complimentary to participants
in the Jabberwock.

     This chapter althrough enthusiastic and loyal was finally effected by 
illnesses with resulted in inactivity. To strengthen its membership and
at the same time to add to our sisterhood a few outstanding individuals 
permission was asked to be changed to a mixed chapter. 

     In 1935, we became known as Eta Sigma and later in 1937 Beta Delta. 
A few of the accomplishments of Beta Delta are effective programs during
May Week in our high schools; establishing a corner in the Public Library 
for books by and about Negroes, and observing Founder's Day with instruction
and interesting social affairs. 

     Although the chapter has lost about one half of its members due to
illnesses, deaths, and financial reverses, it has held together for the 
last three years without any interruption.

     With the beginning of this year, renewed interest has been 
shown in the Sisterhood and the Sorors are determined to make Delta felt in the 
community. Rowena Wilkins is elected for President for the ensuing year. 

                                           BETA DELTA SIGMA
                                                      History

     In an impressive ceremony, Miss Helen Work of Nashville, 
Southern Regional Director of the Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, together
with Sorors of Savannah, Georgia, met and established the
Beta Delta Sigma Graduate Chapter, Friday Evening, May 16, 1941.

     Miss Work installed the following as officers of Beta Delta 
Sigma Chapter: Rosemary Curley Jackson, President; Camille Weems, 
Vice-president; Mae Cora Stewart, Recording Secretary; Enda
Bailey Williams Corresponding Secretary; Dorothy Brown, Treasurer; 
Helen E. Walker Journalist; Rubye Gadson Sergeant-at Arms and 
Willa Mae Matthews Parlimentarian. Other charter members included, 
Ebbie Garlington, Maude Varner, Catherine Williams, Miriam Mann, 
Josephine Dobbs, Mae Nelle Dixon and Albert Walker. 

     Following the ceremony, one of the season's most beautiful
semi-formal dances was given in honor of the new members. 

     Since establishment,,the chapter has taken an active part in 
many local civic activities. 

     We have taken as an annual project, a Hospital Fund to be used
by the two local Negro hospitals in purchasing necessities. Toward 
this fund, we have had one entertainment and have had one
entertainment and have another planned. The proceeds from theses
entertainments plus personal donations of chapter members, will be
given to the two hospitals at Christmas. 

     Due to the late establishment of our chapter, we have been
unable to carry out a very extensive program as yet, but are working 
toward making Beta Delta Sigma one of the most outstanding
chapters in Delta Sigma Theta Sorority.




HISTORY OF SIGMA CHAPTER
                                                                       - Clark College
                                                                         Atlanta Georgia
Sigma Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority was founded
January 1, 1924 by Soror Edna Johnson who was the 
Grand Secretary at the time.  It was not located on 
any school campus, but as a chapter in the city.
     There were nine charter members. Soror Magnolia 
La imer was the first president and Soror Louise Holmes
Elder was the first secretary.  The remaining charter
members were:  Sorors Altona Trent Johnson, Louise Pace, 
Haxel Shanks, Sarah Brinson Starks, Minne Perry Borden, 
Margarita Nabrit Curry who is now instructor of History
at Spelman College, Grace Holmes and Katherine
McCracken, pianist and accompanist for many outstanding
artist.  Soror Anne Scarlet Cockrane, instructor
in Education at Morris Brown College was also among 
the early members of Sigma Chapter. 
     There is an appreciable amount of talent-academic-
Musical, and social- among present members of Sigma
Chapter.  Soror Eunice Morgan, concert contralto
was presented in concert in 1940.  Sorors Anna 
Jackson and Rosetta Hazard, Mezzo-soprano and lyric
sporano respcetively have very promising futures.  Soror
Anna Edwards represented Clark College at the National 
Conference of the Methodist Youth Fellowship held at 
Baker University, Baldwin, Kansas, in 1941.  Soror Juanita
Dennis was chosen "Miss Omega" of the Beta Psi Chapter of 
Omega Psi Phi Fraternity.  One half of the members of 


Sigma Chapter are on the honor roll 
and have maintained high averages 
since entrance into college.
     Sigma Chapter is working hard 
to put over a grand project this
year and we hope to come up to the
ideals of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority.
The past two years we have had as
our project a Charm School which
has been very successful.  It last
for a period of three weeks and
ends with a social affair.  All
members of the student body
participate in this event.  We have
this as our project this year and we
are planning to make it more successful.

HISTORY OF BETA GAMMA CHAPTER
     The first seeds of Beta Gamma Chapter were planted in the
spring of 1936 when members of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority in 
New Orleans invited a select group of girls to a very swanky
party. These girls were organized into an interest group when
school opened. Nine of them were pleged and were initaited in 
Delta Sigma Theta on March 20, 1937. Grand Secretary, Edna
Kinchion inducted the nine barbarians into the fold; Verlina and 
Zerline Bright, Bernice Brown, Louise De Mouy, Thelma Johnson,
Myrtle Oliver, Rufonia Reese, Grace Thornton, and Lolita Wms.
These were the charter members of Beta Gamma. Amoung our  accomplishments
include the presentation of Grand President Vivian
Marsh during the year 1937-38 and the presentation of Soror
Louise Burge in recital (1939) along with the graduate chapter.
The only ti e the school posted averages of Greek letter
organizations Beta Gamma not only had the highest scholastic average
but was the only group in the "1" bracket. For three
consecutive years, 1937-1939 Miss Homecoming was a Delta. During
May Week each year we included talks to high schools and an essay
contest open to seniors. We have celebrated Founders Day
with a banquet and given a gift to the homemaking residence on
the campus. In addition to remembering our sorors at graduation
we have presented an honored mot er each year on Mother's Day
with flowers and sent holiday gifts to various families. In 
1941 we won the prize for the best scrapbook at the Regional 
and in June of the same year awarded a twenty-five dollar scholarship
prize.  

                                        HISTORY OF LAMBDA
     Lambda Chapter was organized in April 1925. Its ten founders
were Esther Henderson Calvert, Mae Evans Chur, Helen Adams Glover, 
Odell Green, Helen Leflet Harris, Jeannette Triplett Jones, Minnie
Lomax, Ernestine Oldham, Ann James Wilkinson, and Eula Carr Wilson.
The idea centered largely around the establishment of a chapter
whose members had had campus experience and who would administer to
the needs of the younger campus student. As a result of this certain 
members voluntarily withdrew from the old Lambda Chapter to form 
a graduate group and the present Lambda Chapter became a mixed
chapter. 

     During the first years of its existence the activities of the 
chapter were devoted mainly to the establishment of a program in the 
community upon which an enduring structure could be erected. As the
first step toward organized government is the framing of a constitution,
Lambda's Constitution took shape. It was fashioned after
that of the Grand Chapter which serves as a pattern for local chapters. 
It contains a section of by-laws to meet the needs of its 
growing body. Close contact with the students on the campus, especially
at the University of Chicago and life outside the college
group were the dual aims of Lambda Chapter. Points of contact with
the students were educational, guidance, cultural, civid, and social. 

     As the aims and purposes of the sorority are primarily educational,
the first point of contact would naturally be scholarship,
and the need for a college education. This high aim of scholarship
has never vecome obscured by other considerations because the chapter
has insisted initiating as members only those who have ranked 
high in their particular fields of endeavor. Quality rather
than quantity has been the motto.

     In May 1925 the chapter inaugurated in this community conferences
for high school girls that are followed up by round-table
discussions. One day during the National Education Week of DELTA
SIGMA THETA a meeting is held for high school girls at which time
the members of the chapter give talks on the various vocations open
to women and the training necessary for pursuance of such vocations. 
In 1927 the chapter issued its first scholarship to Miss Josephine 
Matson who later won the Phi Beta Kappa key at the University of 
Chicago. This scholarship fund was later converted into a scholar-loan
fund. As a part of our May Week program an essay contest for
High School girls was held yearly on the subject, "Why I Want To Go
To College". Cash awards of five dollars for the first prize and 
two dollars and a half for the second are awarded to the girls 
writing the best papers. In 1931 the educational and guidance 
feature of the program was expanded to include the mothers at which
time the soarers who are highly trained in the problems of adolescence.

gave talks.

     In 1926 they started their series of annual lecture-teas
at Phyllis Wheatley Home. Well-known speakers who appeared at
those teas included Chandler Owen, Dr. Fay Cooper-Cole, of 
the University of Chicago, Paul Douglass, Thornton Wilder, Rabbi
Mann, Robert Morse Lovett and Dr. DuBois. In 1930 Nell Hunter
was presented in recital at Kimball Hall.

     As a part of the cultural program, twilight salons were
started in 1932. Such noted men as Doctor Schulman and Mr. Embree
have been speakers. Founder's Day is celebrated each year with the 
purchase of books by Negro authors. Each year during May Week 
an achievement dinner was held for the members of the chapter only.
In 1932 a new feature was added to the May Week Program that of the
radio broadcast. An interpretation of the program of DELTA SIGMA
THETA is given. Soror Dorothea Dismuke has made these broadcasts
for the chapter and in 1933, a national hookup was made over the
National Broadcasting system.

     One of the most active groups of Lambda is the civic 
committee which keeps in touch with organizations of different
nature and with all worthwhile activities in the community.

     The last point of contact is the social. The yearly calendar 
of Lambda Chapter includes many events which bring the members together. 
Under this heading may be included the Jabberwock although
the money obtained from this goes into the Scholarship Loan Fund. 

     The past presidents of Lambda Chapter, each of whom contributed
greatly in her growth are: Eula Wilson, Helen Glover, 
Jeannette Jones, Dorothea Dismuke, Ernestine Oldham, Gwendolyn 
Covington Lee, Mildred Lemon, Elise Evans Harris, Jane Callis Evans, 
and Hazel Anthony. The president-elect is Margaret Bush.

                                              EPSILON SIGMA
     
     The story of Epsilon Sigma is the story of a 
graduate chapter that has grown from seven to fifty 
members since 1922.
     
     In these twenty-one years it has done more than
just grow. It has given to Delta Sigma Theta two 
national officers, raised funds for scholarships, 
sponsored recitals, luncheons, public discussions
andiin general made itself a social force in the 
community. Epsilon Sigma's Gladys Sheppard was
twice National president. Soror Mae Wright Downs
is National vice-president. The National Judiciary 
Board is the "brain-child" of Epsilon Sigma Chapter, 
having sent the idea to the Pittsburgh Convention (1929)
where it was adopted. Soror Mamie Diggs (Robertson) 
of Epsilon became the Board's first chairman.

     Among our first activities was the establishment
of a scholarship fund for outstanding graduates of
Baltimore's Douglas High School. Awards have 
varied from $50 to $100 a year. 

     The annual Jabberwock has proved the best means 
to raise funds for this purpose. But Epsilon Sigma 
has also had an annual rummage sale and sponsored
recitals which have featured artists like Louise
Burege, Todd Duncan and the Howard University Glee 
Club.

    Mother-daughter luncheons and teas to honor
mothers in the community have been purely
inspirational and to these have come as speakers
Sorors Mary Church Terrell, Alice Dunbar Nelson
and Ann Johnson Julian.

     During May Week or on Founders Day it is the
custom to Make a gift to a local institution. We
have sent magazine subscriptions to the Day Nursery,
books to Coppin Normal School, and purchased 
memberships for girls in the Y.W.C.A. Our 
big sister movement centerd our interest in the
Maryland Training School for girsl at Glenburnie.

     Two other activities should be mentioned. 
One- our public panel discussions on low cost
housing and job analysis and two- our happy 
relationship with undergraduate - Alpha Gamma 
Chapter at Morgan College. We interest ourselves 
in Alpha Gamma's activities and bring them to us
at least once a year for a get-to-gether.

     


Chapter History
Beta Zeta Sigma Chapter
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority

Beta Zeta Sigma Chapter was established by Southern
Regional Director, Helen E. Work, in Miami, Florida, June 9, 1942 (?). 

There wer ten charter members whose names are as follows: 
Lugusta Tyler Colston, Alice Jones Hawkins, Mildred M. Jackson,
Petrle Tate Jenkins, Susie Corprew Lucas, Oneida Byrdie Mickens, 
Dorothy Robinson Newton, Maxine Walker Pollard, Frances Stewart
Tucker, and Primrose Barnwell Tibbs. 

Soror Erma Strachan joined our group soon after the chapter was established. 

Soror Pollard is a housewife and mother; Soror Jackson is
Executive Secretary of the Y.W.C.A. The other sorors are 
teachers in the public schools of Miami and West Palm Beach. 
Soror Newton was an assistant librarian at Rockville Center, Division of New York Public Library, during the past summer. 
She was the only Negro to take the General Library & Intelligence
Test and made an average of 96.2. Soror Jackson is a candidate
for the Master of Arts Degree from the University of Mineesota.
Soror Tucker is Principal of one of the three junior-senior 
high schools in Miami. 

Our local project for this year is to furnish a room in the
Y.W.C.A. building when it is completed. 


History 
of
Alpha Delta Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority

Alpha Delta Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority was organized 
on the campus of West Virginia State College, June 2, 1926
with the following sorors as chapter members: Elaine W. Tansil, 
Alice C. Curtis, Leonard P. Drain, Mildred E. Grayson, Winnie R. 
Page, Mabel P. Redman and E. Lucille Vanhook. There is one remaining 
charter member on our campus now. She is Soror Leonard P
Drain, who is assistant librarian. 

Alpha Delta Chapter's charter members worked hard in order 
to form a firm foundation for the many sorors to come. They 
excelled in scholarship with Soror Elaine Tansil winning a
scholarship award from the Board of Education in 1926, and Soror
Alice C. Curtis winning a prize for her excellence in the field 
of Psychology. 

Our chapter has grown since the days of the charter members. 
Last school term our chapter had the largest membership
since our establishment. This membership was consisted of forty
sorors. 

On West Virginia State College campus Alpha Delta Chapter 
of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority has excelled in scholarship over
a period of years. On the scholarship list of all Greek letter 
organizations, Alpha Delta Chapter led in 1931 with a point
average of 1.8034, in 1933 it let with an average of 2.0308 , in 
1937 we were second with an average of 1.89, in 1938 we 
won our first place position with an average of 1.92, in 1939 we 
kept our first place position with an average of 1.96, and in 1940 we
were second in ranking with an average of 1.77. This year scholastic 
ranking of all Greek letter organizations has not been 
announced by the Registrar. 

We have recently had two sorors, because of their superior 
scholarship, to win distinction. In 1940 Soror Yvonne Jackson 
of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania won the National Delta Sigma Theta 
Scholarship of $275.00. Soror Award of $250.00 and a grant to attend 
the graduate school of her choice. She is now attending Boston
University. 

This semester Soror Jean Ashton Daivis, the President of 
Alpha Delta Chapter, because of her high scholarship and distinction 
in campus activities was chosen with two other students 
from this college to appear in Who's Who Among Students in 
American Colleges and Universities. 

Since our establishment in 1926 we have had a total of 
nineteen members to be inducted in the Honorary Scholastic 
Society. To become eligible for this society one must maintain
for two consecutive semesters a point average of 2.25 or above.

Our main annual project is the Jabberwock. We always 
strive to make it one of the best affairs on the campus. In 
recent years we have also had May Week celebration.
Alpha Delta Chapter takes an active part in the Annual
Baby Contest sponsored by the Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority on
this campus. We have won this contest for two consecutive years.
In 1940 we won the contest with a sale of 2500 votes and in 1941
we won the contest with a sale of 2546 votes.
Alpha Delta Chapter sends greetings to her sorors every-
where and wants them all to know that we stand twenty strong for
the betterment of our own Delta Sigma Theta!
Jean A. Davis, President 
Alpha Delta Chapter
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority 
Ruth P. Alexander, Journalist 

History of Beta Nu
Through the efforts of Soror Edna Johnson Norris, a national
officer, Sorors Althea Howard, Alpha Beta, Anne W. Childress,
Alpha Beta, Mattalyn Bonner, Iota Sigma, Nathalie Fenelon, Chi, 
and Julia E. Duncan, Beta, a charter was granted to a group 
of splendid women in the city of Gary, Indiana, for a chapter of 
DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY. 

Beta Nu chapter was established on December 17, 1938 by the 
Regional Director, Soror Hortense Young, of Louisville, assisted 
by former Grand Secretary Soror Edna Johnson Morris. The charter
members were the above-named sorors, who served as a nucleus, and
the following new persons: Inez Brewer, present president, Caroline 
Mason, Alice H. Turner, Alma Potts, Leonora Rickman, Hope
Dennis, Pauline Walton, Lena Blattner, Ernestine Lawson, Bernice
Washington, Eleanor Morris, Margaret Rudolph, Mabel Cox, and 
Mae Diffay Wethers. 

A very constructive community program was carried out, and 
the chapter has gained an enviable reputation in the city of 
Gary as a worthwhile group, not only for the joy and prestige its
members share, but for the real service that is has given the public. 

We were especially fortunate to have as our guest speaker for 
May Week observances two of our most outstanding Deltas. During 
our 1940 observance, a guidance conference was held for girls who
were high school seniors, and an inspiring talk was given by Soror 
Mary R. Smith, Personal Director and Vocational Adviser at 
Dusable High School, Chicago. The sorors worshipped in a body on 
the concluding Sunday at one of the local churches. Soror Bernice
Washington was chairman of the planning committee. For our 1941 
May Week, Soror Anna Johnson Julian, one of our past national 
presidents, was our speaker. Both chapter members and their guest
were in unqualified agreement as to the high quality of Soror
Julian's talk and charming atmosphere of the social tea which
followed. 

A fitting climax to the 1940 celebration was the public opening
of the Delta Baby Room at St. John's Hospital. Soror Inez Brewer
was chairman of the project and the cost of the equipment was 
approximately three hundred dollars. The color scheme of the room 
was an attractive combinations of soft tones of blue, pink, and white. 
The equipment included bassinets, bathstands, venetian blinds, 
curtains, and other essentials. Soror Eleanor Morris directed the 
interior decorating. 

A student loan fund has been established at Indiana University 
for the use of Negro students enrolled there. 

The Delta Baby Room and the student loan fund were not the only
ovidences of community endeavor in which Beta Nu has distinguised
her self. Beta Nu Chapter sponsored a party for the blind Negroes
of this community. The hostesses entertained the guests with conversational 
groups, games, and dancing. It would be difficult to
determine which of the two groups enjoyed the evening more, the 
hostesses who found joy in unselfish giving, or the guests who
found joy in the warm atmosphere of friendly and gay

companionship.
   On subsequent occasions, and as requests have come in, the Soror 
have contributed to the Gary Goodfellows' Christmas Cheer Fund, 
the Lake County Department of Public Welfare, and the Band Uniform 
Drive at Roosevelt High School.

   Beta Nu's Jabberwock presentations have become a tradition in 
Gary, and each year's effort has been acclaimed for its entertainment 
value and for the worthy purpose which inspired it. Our most 
recent Jabberwock had as its theme, "Alice in Swingland", and 
depicted Lewis Carroll's famous character on a visit to the 
regions of syncopation. Each Jabberwock effort has enabled us to 
grant a scholarship of one hundred dollars to a top ranking student 
of the Roosevelt High School graduating class.

   In February, an impressively beautiful Founder's Day banquet was 
held, and sorors from the entire Chicago area were present. 
Included among the group was Soror Marguerite Alexander, one of the 
Founders of Delta. Her manner, charming and delightful, 
endeared her instantly to everyone present.

   For two consecutive years, Beta Nu has been awarded first group 
prize in the annual Hobby Show sponsored by Sigma Gamma Rho 
Sorority. Individual prizes were awarded Soror Cooke and Soror 
Cox. Much credit for the last exhibit is due Soror Brewer, whose 
rare collection of antiques was largely responsible for Beta Nu's 
receiving the award.

   At the recent Artists' and Models' ball in Chicago, Beta Nu's 
entrant won first prize over six contestants for the coveted 
honor of being crowned queen of the ball.

   Members of Beta Nu have achieved, individually as well as 
collectively. Space will permit us to name only a few outstanding 
sorors among our number. Soror Thelma Marshall has the distinction 
of being the only Negro to become a supervisor in the Department 
of Public Welfare in Lake County, and as far as we know, she is 
the only one in the state of Indiana. This position was the result 
of a State examination in which Soror Marshall ranked at the top.
   Soror Caroline Mason holds the only Negro membership on the 
Lake County Board of Public Welfare. She had been on the board 
for over seven years. 
Soror Ronetta Rowan has written a text-book which has been
published and is used in all of the schools of the city. It is a
mathematics book.
   Soror Hope Dennis, a master of arts in psychology, is a member 
of the board of planning in the current curriculum revision in 
the Gary Public Schools.
   Soror Inez B. Brewer, is the North Central Sectional Director 
of the National Association of College Women, and Secretary-Treasurer 
of the Gary Branch of the University of Chicago Alumni Association. 
Beta Nu Chapter has lost one member by death. Soror Turner, 
joined Omega-Omega Chapter in November of this year, and Beta Nu 
feels its irreparable loss, but bows to the will of the Almighty.

HISTORY OF ZETA CHAPTER

In October 19210 when Zeta Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority was
set up at the University of Cincinnati located on the banks of the mighty
Ohio little did the founders of the small hall, that was Zeta Chapter feel
that in two decades it would become a mighty avalance destroying and
tearing down so completely all opposing forces of racial prejudice and
smugness on the part of the Caucasian group and timidity self pity and
dependence on the part of the Tyroid population.

Zeta Chapter was set up the advice of Soror G. Edwinna Woodward,
President of Beta Chapter in a community consisting in a great portion,
of Southerners who had for generations felt the Negro to be inferior and
had almost succeeded in making him fell the same. It is with great pride
that we salute the founders of Zeta Chapter for forming the first Negro
Fraternal Organization on the University of Cincinnati campus. This group
consisting of Blanche Dixon Bolsinger, Louise Penn Sandipher, Beatrice
Morton, Ida Mae Rhodes, and Laverne Friason Watson, as undergraduates and
Cleo Hall Perry, Sarah White, Mary Holloway Westherly, Edith Howard,
Ethel La May Calimos, Necla Robinson, Martha Hall Ross, Maude Ragan, Mary
Lee Tate, Jennie Austin Fletcher, Marie Belsinger and Camelle Friason Hood
having graduate status, by its fair play, scholastic ability, and exemplifications 
of ideal young womanhood, gained faculty recognition and for
the first time in the history of the University of Cincinnati, within a
year of the founding of the Chapter a page was reserved in the year book for
Zeta Chapter Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, a recognized student organization. 

As the Soros of Zeta became increasingly aware of the problems of
their group, they realized from experience that Negroes to accomplish must
be educated--this led to the establishment of the fore-runners of our
present scholarship fund and guidance service. Zeta Chapter grew so rapidly
that it was necessary to establish in 1922, a graduae chapter, first known
as Gamma Beta and later as Gamma Sigma Chapter, Delta Sigma Theta Sorority.
In Cincinnati the setup of the two chapters of Negro America's leading
sosority is quite unique in that Zeta and Gamma Sigma work harmoniously in
all of their public projects. To give a history of Zeta one cannot avoid
mentioning Gamma Sigma because of their joing program. A very few of the
outstanding projects they fostered are:
1. The Jabberwocks which have presented annually since May 1933,
drawing audience of two and one half thousand from many points of the Middle 
West.
Those Cincinnati Sorors who planned the first public project for benefit
of the scholarship fund realized, that large oaks from little acorns do
grow, when they saw the 1941 Jabberwock audience of 2,500 with approximately
500 turned away; their first undertaking less than a generation back had
approximately 500 paid admissions, a packed house for that time.

Prior to presenting the Jabberwock Cincinnati Deltas brought annually
to their patrons, well attended musical comedies and probrams, the most
notable one being when the works of the great masters wer pr sented by e ight
local pianists playing in unison.
2. During the week that the Jabberwock is presented Sorors observe May
Week as set up by the Grand Chapter for the public meeting climaxing this
observance some outstanding soror services as a guest speaker.
3.
The National Founders Day is annually observed by houlding a public
meeting. Cincinnate music lovers will long remember the musical program,

(comemorating this occasion) presented in January 1941, featuring the
 compositions of Soror Johanna G. Bush.

We could go on endlessly pointing to the achievements and progress
of Zeta Chapter Sorors through the years--for these women are truly the 
select of the select having active participation in reacreational,  
educational, social, religious, political, cultural and interracial projects 
fostered in the Queen City of the Middle West, often being in addition to 
the force that controls, the impetus for the movements.  Zeta Sorors as do 
all good Deltas strive ceasingly for the uplifting of the Negro race-for 
example the Chapter for the past two years, realizing that our high school 
girls are our tomorrow's leaders, has been holding guidance conferences, 
where Sorors and outstandinly successful women of our locality have been 
giving information not only on vocations for women, correct dress, social 
adjustment and personality conflicts, but also on fine arts.  To Zeta 
Chapter's Pyramid Club goes the honor of initiating Pyramid Migration Day, 
a type of regional conference where our little sisters can camp our notes, 
thrash out problems and in general work jointly for becoming good Deltas.
With apologies to all of our outstanding Sorors we have selected six 
present or past members of Zeta whose achievements deserve national acclaim;
1. Soror Ethel La May Claimese at one time Grand President of our 
sisterhood--the first Negro to be appointed by the University of Cincinnati 
as a corpertain teacher.
2. Soror Ida Mae Rhodes, Former Grand Treasurer, 1st Grand Vice President 
Regional Representative (before the day of regional directors), former 
Chum of Committee of Management of our local Y. W. C. A. and at present a 
member of our National Constitution Committee.
3. Soror Elsie Austin only Negro woman to graduate from University of 
Cincinnati College of Law, only Negro woman to serve as Assistant to the 
Attorney General of Ohio, now servin in the office of the U. S. Recorder of 
Deeds and now so ably filling the position of Grand  President of Delta 
Sigma Theta Sorority.
4. Our soror, Du Lucy Oxley only Negor to attend and graduate form 
University of Cincinnati College of Medicine.
5. Soror Anne Lewis only Negro to earn a "The Beta Kappa Key" at 
University of Cincinnati.
6. Soror Grace Thorpe, second Negro to be elected to membership in 
Alpha Lamble Delta honorary scholistic sorority for Greshmen.
Zeta that might avalance modestly takes a bow for having been the wedge 
that has made possible an entree in formerly unattainable fields for those 
retiring modest souls in our group who have needed someone to pioneer the way
Zeta is recognized now as in the past as a leader.

HISTORY OF ALPHA MY SIGMA
I. Date of Establishment: June 23, 1939
II. Name of Charter Members
1. Banks, Thelma
2. Beale, Beatrice Woodson
3. Butcher, LaVerne
4. Burwell, Elizabeth
5. Cooper, Eunice
6. Craghead, Alva
7. Craghead, Evelyn
8. Downing, Helene
9. Lawson, Sadie
10. McDaniels, Azalia
11. Moore, Alyce
12. Thompson, Alta Mai
13. Williams, Christine
14. Yancey, Sadiemarie
III. Established
Mrs. Reba McLain Bowens - Eastern Regional Director 
assisted by Mrs. Pauline F. Wheaton, President of Alpha 
Theta Sigma Chapter, Lynchburg, Virginia, and Mrs. Gwendolyn
Higginbotham, President of Alpha Epsilon Sigma Chapter
of Bluefield, West Virginia.
Visiting Sorors at initiation; Misses Billy Scott, Olga
and Berniece Lomax of Alpha Theta Sigma Chapter, Lynchburg,
Virginia and Mrs. Berniece Martin and Misses Altha and Lillian
Allen of Alpha Epsilon Sigma Chapter of Bluefield, West Virginia.
Officers Elected At Establishment of Chapter:
President-Beatrice Woodson Beale
Vice-Pres.-Sadie V. Lawson
Recording Secretary-Alva M. Craghead
Financial Secretary-Sadiemarie Yanopy
Treasurer-Helene K. Downing
Sargeant-at-arms-Alyce S. Moore
Business Manager-Emma K. Logan
IV. Chapter Projects
A. Girl Scout Troop
1. Organized November 7, 1939
B. Little Theatre Project
1. Organized December 1939
C. Weekly Contribution of Magazines and Books to:
1. Burrell Memorial Hospital
2. Veteran's Facility
3. Delinquent Home
D. Annual Jabberwock
E. Musical Hour
1. Presented each Sunday Afternoon at Veteran's
Facility for disable veterans.
F. Annual Scholarship
1. Given worthy High School Graduate

G. Contributions
1. Tickets to indigent pupils to plays sponsored by
Theatre Guild
2. Contributions to the Young Women's Christian Ass'n.
(a) Youth Conference
(b) Payment of Piano
(c) General Contribution
3. Hospital Christmas Tree
4. Annual Red Cross Roll
V. Accomplishments
Soror Sadie V. Lawson, an honor graduate of Virginia
State College, Ettricks, Virginia and Charter Member of
Alpha Eta Chapter has completed work on her Master's Degree
at Harvard University and is nearing the completion of her
Doctrate Degree at the same institution.  Soror Lawson is
now Assistant Principal of the Lucy Addison High School Roanoke,
Virginia, a Charter Member of Alpha Mu Sigma Chapter,
ex-vice president for two years and at present sargeant-at-arms
of the chapter.
Grand Chapter appointed Soror Lawson on the Scholarship
rating Committee and Speakers Bureau.
Soror Eunice Cooper, an honor graduate of Virginia State 
College, Ettricks, Virginia received her Master's Degree with
honors in Business Administration from the University of Boston
where she is now working on her Doctrate Degree in the same
field.  At present she heads the department of Business Administration
at the Lucy Addison High School Roanoke, Virginia and
is a Charter Member of the Alpha My Sigma Chapter.
Loror Laura Kellum, a graduate of West Virginia State College
in the field of Social Science had done graduate work at
the Atlanta School of Social Work.  She has served as Executive
secretary of the Phyllis Wheatly Y. W. C. A. in Birmingham, Alabama,
Winston-Salem, N. C. and at present the Secretary of the
Roanoke Branch, Roanoke, Virginia.
Soror Alta Mai Thompson, a graduate of Atlanta University,
Atlanta, Georgia has completed her Master's Degree at MIddleburg
School of Languages in Vermont.  Soror Thompson is head of
the French Department at the Lucy Addison High School and is
Directress of the Treble Clef Club.
Sorors Who Have Completed Their Master's Degree
Soror LaVerne Butcher---University of Michigan
Soror Sadie V. Lawson---Harvard University
Soror Alta Mai Thomson
Sorors Working on Master's Degree
Soror Evelyn Craghead---Ohio State University
Soror Artholia Cundiff--City College, N. Y.
Soror Georgia Brown-----University of Michigan
Soror Geneva Penn-------Howard Medical School

Girl Scout Leaders
Soror Helene K. Downing--Chairman
Soror Evelyn Craghead----Leader of Troop 34
Soror Sadie V. Lawson----Leader of Troop 35
Soror Eunice Cooper------Assistant Troop Leader
Soror Arthelia Cundiff---Assistant Troop Leader
Soror Elizabeth Burwell, a graduate of Virginia State
College in the field of Physical Education, and has taught
Physical Education at Palmer Memorial Institute, Sedalia,
N. C.  She has been counsellor at Fern Rock Camp in Bear
Mountain, N. Y., and Directress of Ironsides Camp in Bear
Mountain, N. Y:
Soror Louise Skepper received her B. S. Degree in the 
field of Physical Education and has taught in Roanoke County,
Christianburg Institute and Counsellor at Fern Rock Camp in
Bear Mountain, N. Y.
Soror Geneva Penn is an honor graduate of Howard University.
She has work in the Biology Research Laboratory in N. Y. C.
and is in the Medical School of Howard University.
Soror Mary Curtis, a graduate of A. & [?] College received
her B. S. Degree in Home Economics.  Soror Curtis is head of
the Home Economics Department of the Junior High School of Roanoke
and is Directress of the Home Making Department of the N. Y. A.
in Roanoke, Virginia.
Soror Emma Logan is the Business Manager of the Burrell
Memorial Hospital, which is the largest and only Hospital managed
and operated for Negroes in Virginia.
Soror Evelyn B. Skipper, a graduate of Howard University
has taught in the public school system of Covington, Virginia
and is now Teller of the only Negro Bank in South West Virginia;
is the president of the Alpha Mu Sigma Chapter of Delta
Sigma Sorority.
CHAPTER ROSTER
Beatrice Beale
Thelma Banks
Elizabeth Burwell
Georgia Brown
LaVerne [?]
Eunice Cooper
Alva Craghead
Evelyn Craghead
Mary Curtis
Helene Downing
Gwendolyn Hale
Elizabeth Howard
Malena Law
Sadie Lawson
Louise King
Laura Kellum
Emma Logan
Azalia McDaniels
Alyce S. Moore
Marguerite Nabors
Geneva Penn
Elnora Saunders
Mary Saunders
Evelyn Skipper
Louise Skipper
Alta Mai Thompson
Christine Williams
Flossie West
Iretha K. Woofliff
Sadiemarie Yancey


HISTORY OF
OMICRON SIGMA CHAPTER
Tulsa, Oklahoma

Omicron Sigma was established at Tulsa, Oklahoma, April
30, 1930. The charter members were Corrine Ramsay, Grace
Humbolt, Mable O. Gates, Carrie P. Neely, Mary S. Buford,
Opaline B. Armstrong, Alma R. Marsh, Jobie E. Holderness,
and Alma Ford.
In this scope of ten years the chapter has grown by
leaps and bounds, carrying ever high the ideals of Delta.
Omicron Sigma has given a total of not less than five-
hundred dollars in scholarships to deserving girls. Each
year a chest of fifty dollars value if given to the next
highest ranking student. For 1941 we gave a second chest
to a Sand Springs student.
Each year we have had a civic affair; we have presented
at these affairs among our outstanding artist Sue Biley
Thurman, Louise Burge, and the Southernaires; we present
the Jabberwock; we have been either partially or wholly
responsible for the setting up of the Alpha Roh Sigma, Alpha
Xi Sigma, Beta Upsilon, Beta Zeta, and Alpha Phi chapters.
Omicron Sigma is quite proud of its sorors, all of whom
are quite active in the religious, civic, and social activities
of the city, Our financial assistance always goes to
the Y. W. C. A. N. A. A. C. P., Red Cross, Community Fund
and this year we are making a sizeable pledge to the Moton
Hospital Fund, North Tulsa's Open Air School, and Girls Receiving
Home.

The following officers and roster comprise this chapter:
president, Ardelia J. Stricklin; vice-president, Eva Turner;
secretary, Frankie R. Fields; corresponding secretary, Grace
McClung; treasurer, Jusia E. Duff; journalist, Edna Dennie,
Roster; Jeanne B. Goodwin, Opaline Armstrong, Mary S. Buford-
regional director, Elsie S. Burnes, Bernice Fields, Emma Bryant,
Mollye Cole, Elesta jones, Corrine Ramsay, Ida Rowland,
Cammile Sanford, Mildred Williams, Maude Holt, Nettye Hughes,
Ruth Fairchilds, Bessye Crawford, Rosella Musgrove, Jobie Holderness,
Blanche Farthering, Jean Brooks, Paralee Coleman, Lydia
Guess, Helena Freeman, Sue King, Carrie Person, Lorene
Austin. Deliessa Starr, Jane A. Johnson, Ceola Brown, Vivivan
T. Greadington, Lorell Miller, and Margaret Winston.

HISTORY OF ALPHA RHO SIGMA

Alpha Rho Sigma Chapter is a graduate chapter and was established August
16, 1939 by Soror Mary S. Buford with ten charter members, six of whom
were initiated-namely, Beuna Hammonds, Madge Hibley, Sarah Jane Hodges,
Jean Hudson, Olivia Ross, and Mattie C. Wiley--Two were reinstated members:
Carlotta Elliott Guest, and Willa Strong, Two were transferees-
Sorors Genevieve Weaver and Alma V. Richey Marsh.

ACTIVITIES

On December 3, 1939, Alpha Rho Sigma Chapter gave a "Presentation
Tea" to the citizens of Muskogee, Oklahoma. More than a hundred-fifty
visitors were received.

In the early spring the chapter entertained the Delta Mothers and a
group of outstanding women in the home of Soror Genevieve Weaver, and from
that group a "Delta Patroness Club" was organized.

During Educational Week, May, 1940, we presented Soror Edna M. Burke,
President of American Sigma Chapter of Tulsa, as guest speaker in the Manual
Training High School Auditorium. She spoke on "Choosing a Vocation"
and her address proved to be one of the most eloquent and most scholarly
addresses ever delivered in Muskogee.

On Senior Award Day, the chapter presented Verdell Vinson with a
beautiful fitted overnight bag for her outstanding service, all-round
leadership, and scholastic attainment.

In June, 1940, chapter presented five hundred pounds of ice to the
First Baptist Sunday School, in Muskogee, Oklahoma.

In September, 1940, constructed a Rummage Sale.

On November 27, 1940 the chapter sponsored a Pre-Thanksgiving Dance
to raise funds for a fifty dollar scholarship.

December 23, a Christmas baskets of groceries were given to needy families.
Bushel baskets were filled with groceries and home-baked fruit cakes,
after which the baskets were wrapped in red and white crepe paper. Christmas
cards from the chapter were put in each basket.

On January 12, 1941, observed Founder's Day with a sermon at Mt. Calvary
Baptist Church, with Rev. A. T. Inman as speaker.

February, 1941, the chapter the home of Mrs. Ida B. Ayers for electric
lights, and a picture of Soror Mary McLeod Bethune was presented to Manual
Training High School during Negro History Week.

In March, 1941, organized a Delta Aide Pledge Club with eighteen pledges.
In April, 1941, the chapter entertained with a coffee for the Zeta Phi
Beta local chapter and their visiting sorors in attendance at their Regional
Conference.

HISTORY OF OMEGA CHAPTER
Omega Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority draws its membership
from several Universities and Colleges in and near Cleveland, Ohio--------
Western Reserve University, Baldwin-Wallace College and Oberlin College. 
The outstanding activities of Omega Chapter have included the Jabberwock,
initiated in 1934, which is an annual event which makes possible the
awarding of a $100.00 scholarship to the high school girl with the greatest
achievement record furing her high school career.
The Chapter has been active since its re-organization in 1931 by Regional
Director Bonnie Osborn-Smith.
The Delphite Club, composed of high school seniors, was organized in
1934 by Omega Chapter. In 1935, the chapter organized the Patroness Board
composed of prominent women in Cleveland who were interested in assisting
the chapter in executing its program. Both of these groups are active to
date.
The general program of Omega Chapter has included presentations of
outstanding students in recitals, observation of Delta Sigma Theta National
May Week, programs and fostering teas and social events. Every Thanksgiving
we give a basket to the Old Folks Home for Negroes. The chapter holds
a voting membership in The Phyllis Wheatley Association and has made contributions
to the N.A.A.C.P. and the new Y.M.C.A.

A BRIEF HISTORY OF THETA SIGMA
Theta Sigma Chapter was established as Theta Beta in 1925
at the time of the re-organization of Lambda Chapter, which took
place under the director on Soror Martha Hall Ross, National
Vice President of DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY.
Soror Mildred Dobson was our first president, and under
her, Theta Sigma Chapter, being a graduate chapter, executed a
fine civic program in Chicago. Theta Sigma has always been
interested in social service, particularly because several of
its members are definitely interested and employed in that field.
The chapter has done much for charity, and has assisted a number of civic affairs of the Southside community.
In order to know the city of Chicago better, and to
understand more fully the conditions and circumstances under
which many groups in Chicago live, the chapter sponsors a
tour of some specific section of the city each year. The day is
spent in that particular neighborhood in a very interesting 
manner, and the chapter makes an informal survey of the situation
as they find it.
The day nursery has been an interest of one our sorors
for a number of years, and it has been the privilege and pleasure
of Theta Sigma to donate toward the maintenance of this community
necessity if the mothers are to be enabled to work in order
to support her family in case where the father is incapacitated
for work, is not at home, or unable to meet the family responsibilities
alone.
The chapter has maintained a loan fund at the Wendell
Phillips and DuSable Schools. Students who are temporarily in
special need of a small amount of money for books, supplies, and
the like, have been aided by Theta Sigma in this way.
One of the most brilliant pupils of old Wendell Phillips
High School graduated and had the desire to go to college, but
she was without funds. She was able to secure a scholarship for
tuition from some agency interested in her welfare, but she had
no ready cash for other expenses. Theta Sigma considered the
case and soon found that its members were willing to be responsible
for the street car fare from her home to Chicago University
each day and provide some clothing, such as rain-coat, galoshes,
unbrella, underclothes, and a dress now and then. The girl was
enabled then to go to school at University of Chicago where she
proved to be an outstanding scholar, maintaining her "A" rating
held in high school.
The above experience has encouraged Theta Sigma to "adopt"
some struggling girl every four years, and help that one through
out the time of special need. The chapter is helping to educate
the third girl now.

Soror Mary R. Smith is our most outstanding member, and particularly do we mention her because she is acclaimed by authorities to be outstanding in the field of Vocational Guidance and Personnel Relationships.  She is Personnel Adviser in charge of Placements at DuSable High School.

Nearly all of our sorors are active members in YWCA affairs and have been for many years, Sorors Estelle McNeal and Soror Smith being members of the Committee of Management for a long while.  Soror Smith was at one time the Chairman.

With Lambda chapter Theta Sigma Chapter sponsored an educational Conference in May of 1941 and many fine results were noted because the high school seniors, who were the guests, were enthusiastic in their expressions concerning the inspiration that had been received.

We have lost one member by death, Soror Tillie Houston White, who passed away in January 1938.

With funds from an annual "Handkerchief Auction Sale" we increase our Scholarship Fund, and we have been the grateful recipients of handkerchiefs sent to our chapter, each year, by some of the Grand Officers and by chapters and friends far and near.

Theta Sigma has offered fine fellowship for its small membership, and the spirit of cooperation and sisterhood has characterized its entire existence.

Alpha Gamma Chapter
of
DELTA SIGMA THETA SORORITY
Annual may week Service
May 2, 1943
*****
Morgan Christian Center
Prelude      
Soror Inez Reed

through love be servants one to another, for the whole law is fulfilled in one word, sen in this; "Thou shalt love they neighbor as thyself."

Hyan     No. 62    With All My Hearth
Responsive Reading

Leader: My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue; but in deed and in truth.
Response: And hereby we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our hearts before him.
Leader: For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and known all things.
Response: Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then we have confidence toward God.
Leader: And whatsoever we ask, we receive of him because we keep his commandments, and do these things that are pleasing in his sight. 
Response: And this is his commandment, That we should believe on the name of his son Jesus Christ, and love one another, as he gave us commandment.
All: And he that kept his commandments dwelleth in him, and ho in him. And hereby we knew that we abideth minus, by the spirit which he hath given us. 

Prayer
Chorubium Song -- Bertiansky     Pyramid Soxtotto
Introduction of Speaker                 Soror Kathleen Mumby
Address                                            Soror Mary Church Terrell
Hymn                    No. 58                My Jesus, I love Thee
Silent Meditation
Mizpah
Postludo

Deltal News
Mary church Terrell
Soror Mary Church Terrell,  extinguished author, travler, and lecturer occupies the unique position of being the first colored woman to write a full length autobiography this autobiography A Colored Woman in a White World is another valuable contribution to the literature of the race.

In her book Soror Terrell recounts her life in a world where she as a colored woman has two strikes against her form the very beginning. The first is race, the second is color. But despite her apparent handicaps if we look over her list of achievements we will see that she let no obstacles obstruct the path to success.

Ms. Terrell was the first colored woman in the world to serve on a Board of Education, being one of the first two women appointed to the Board of Education in the District of Columbia. She was the first President of the National Association of Colored Women Abroad Mrs. Terrell represented colored women three times. At the International Congress of Women in Berlin in 1914, she was the only delegate from the United States, to deliver her address in three languages, English, French, and German. In 1929 Soror Terrell was named as one of the "one hundred most famous alumni of Oberlin College at the celebration of that institution's one hundredth anniversary. She was secretary of the Race Relations Committee of the Washington Federation of Churts and is now chairman of the Interracial Committee.

After such an imposing list of activities it is far easier to see why Mrs. Terrell is such a significant figure of our race. It's also inspiring to feel that she is one who has battled her way through the forces of race prejudice to recognition by a white world.

May Week

May week has always played an important part in the history of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority. Many have, perhaps, wondered why we selected a week in May, rather than some other time. We have chosen a week in May because it is so meaningful. This, the most beautiful moth of Spring, with all the freshness and sweetness of nature's awakening, preparing for Summer's fulfillment, is so like the awakening and unfolding of our young girlhood, preparing to bloom into the summer of womanhood.

May week is our one Nationwide public appearance, at which time chapters over the entire country are working to promote higher education. We urge movements to interest girls in entering colleges because we feel that a college education enables a girl to live a fuller richer life, and during this week we appeal to all mothers and daughters to become education ambitions. We urge this because of the great opportunities that lie ahead in the life of every girl, and certainly there is no doubt in our minds regarding the fact that those who are prepared are the ones to reap the fruits.

The "Barbarians"
You have seen them in their red and white, carrying their ducks and gazing hopelessly about them at a civilized and seemingly unreal world to their eyes. They are our "Barbs." This year they include Caroline Bundare, Thelma Ellis, Muriel Dougal, Beatrice Knotts, Annice Lawson, Margret Owens and Nannie Phelps. We wish these girls and the other probations of the other group much luck and sincerely hope that they successfully cross the "burning sands."

WHO ARE THE "DELTAS" ON THE CAMPUS?

James Finney better known as "Jimmy" to most of us is a Junior, a typist on the Spokesman staff, a member of the Pan-Hellenic Council and of the "Y."

Consuella Johnson or "Connie" is a Senior from that great little town Tuckahoe, New York.  She is an honor student, a member of the Home Economics Club and a "good cook."

Ezell Johnson is also a Senior, a member of the Pi Lambda Psi Honorary Society, and has made an outstanding record for herself as an honor student.

Kathleen Mumby or "Kay" by which also is better known is another Senior honor student.  She is President of our Sorority, Acting President of the Student Council and Copy Editor of the Spokesman.  Soror Mumby is also May Queen of 1943.

Viola O'Neil our cute little miss from the Virgin Isles is our Vice-President.  "Vi" is Secretary of the Junior Class and a member of the Dramatic Club and the YWCA.

Harriet Ponto is also a Junior, an honor student, treasurer of her class and Business Manager of the Spokesman.  She is our Dean-of-Pledges.

Dorothy Roberts formerly Dorothy Poarlo is a Junior and was formerly a student of music at Wilborforce.

Willodync Shilelds is a former Morgan student, who is now working at the Social Security Board.  She will return to Morgan in September.

"DELTAS" OFF THE CAMPUS

Elaine Carsley is a graduate of Coppin and will graduate from Morgan in June.  She is a teacher in the Baltimore system, Treasurer of our Sorority and a member of the "WE'S".

Bernice Mitchell is an honor student who has completed her credits for graduation and is scheduled to enter Freedman's soon.  She is our Secretary.

"DELTAS" OFF THE CAMPUS (continued)

Carlita Murphy is a graduate of the University of Wisconsin and is Copy Editor of the Afro-American.  Soror Murphy is affiliated with the Graduate Chapter and works with our group also.

Inez Rod is well-known for her dramatic ability.  A member of the Negro Little Theatre and of the Firesiders, and a teacher in the Baltimore system, she plays a vital part in our community affairs. 

SUMMARY OF "DELTA DOIN'S"

Alpha Gamma Chapter has had a very pleasant and successful year.  We started out the year by giving a party for all freshman girls.  The party went over with a "bang" and gave all the Sorors encouragement to continue there activities during the succeeding months.  Just before we went home for the Christmas vacation, we gave our attention to our Pledge Group.  The aim was to knit the Sorority and Pyramid Group closer together.  A social meeting was held at the home of Soror Pearle.  Then it was time to entertain the mid-semester Freshmen.  The Sorority took all of the girls to the movies sponsored by the Pyramid Club.  Souvenirs were given to all the girls with the insignia stamped on the gifts.  The last part of March a Musical Soiree was given presenting Sherman Smith at the organ.  Readings were delivered by Sorors Mumby and Reed.  May Week is the culmination of another year's activities.

PYRAMID GROUP

We are very proud of our Pyramids for they have worked constantly throughout the year.  They are Helen Briggs, Lillian Carr, Louise Bston, Rho Edmonds, Martha Gower, Ruby Keyes, Norma Lewis, Mildred McGlotten, Annie Fulwood, Mildred Reynolds, Constance Steward, Lillie and Gloria Sturgis, Bettina Somerville, Freda White and Helen Wilson.

Transcribed and reviewed by contributors participating in the By The People project at crowd.loc.gov.